Ch Non-Net sales Music Vent Fermi In our last episode, the Brotherhood of Steel sent us to the Adam's Air Force Base. To get there, we had defined the long abandoned presidential metro connecting the White House to the Capitol building to the Adam's Air Force Base. We were chatting with a computer that's been here for 200 years, and getting rid of a ghoul infestation, we finally activated the tram to arrive at the Adam's Air Force Base station. Stepping off the train, we clump up a staircase to the left. At the top of the staircase, we pass an average locked door and round a corner. Cut bump into the enclave. Got a couple well placed mini-nukes make quick work of them. Looks like they interrupted a battle between some ghouls and some pre-war robotic metro security. Stepping over their bodies, we can move north down a hallway to loot the corpses of the enclave we just killed. At the end of the hall, we see a pathway to the left. At a staircase to the north, going down this small pathway, we see it rounds a corner back south. Turning south, we find a nook to the left. There's a pulse grenade and some microfusion cells on a table, a laser rifle and an enclave crate on the ground, and a turret control system terminal, locked with an average lock. So looks like we could have hacked this to have it turned on the enclave. We see that it was a pre-war turret, the enclave hacked this terminal before us, to turn it on their side. Moving north, we pass more pulse grenades and microfusion cells on the ground, and we see that average locked door we passed by after getting off the metro. So since this does a full loop, we'll retrace our steps, turn north, go up the stairs, and open the big double doors to the Adam's Air Force Base. On the other side of the door, we find ourselves on a lower level, climbing two sets of stairs and under an awning, we arrive on the ground level as a squadron of vertabirds fly overhead. We discover the Adam's Air Force Base entrance, and another vertabird off in the distance takes off. Despite the soldiers we just killed, they don't appear to be aware of our presence yet. Directly in front of us is a pre-war statue of an American jet flying off into the sky. It reminds us a lot about the crash jets we found in the point to look out DLC. Directly ahead of us is a large insignia, Adam's Air Force Base. Interesting pre-war logo, there's a ruined army truck to the right, and we see that many of the entrances and exits are blocked off by force fields. So the presidential metro really was the only way to get in here. Turning around, we see some pods on support struts, but it's just then that we get attacked. Laser turrets on the roofs of the nearby buildings. After taking them out, we can move into this elevated pod. We find some scrap, a first aid box on a table, and a turret control system terminal locked with an average lock. This terminal is part of the Robco Trespasser Management System, but this was connected to the turrets we just destroyed. Error turrets, not responding. We see a window in this pod overlooking a workstation with the ruined Robobrain nearby, and all we find to the north is more scrap. I wanted to examine that Robobrain, so heading out and walking behind the pod, it's then I noticed. A crate, lying on the ground, stamped with the brotherhood of steel insignia, and dangling from the wall nearby is a brotherhood of steel parachute. This must be the supply cache, Paladin Tristan said he would send to us. Once we made it inside the Air Force Base, opening up the crate inside we find a stack of electron charge packs, some micro fusion cells, a Tesla cannon, hey! Looks like they got it working, and a holotape orders. Listening to the holotape in our inventory. This is Paladin Tristan. If you're listening to this, then you've made it through the Presidential Metro, and the Adam's Air Force Base is all that stands in your way. Our scouts report that the fire controls for the orbital missile satellite are located in the main tower of the Enclave Mobile Platform. The only way into the platform is by way of a ramp that lowers from a watch post the Enclave set up in the old air traffic control tower. When you open the crate, it triggered a beacon. We'll pick up the signal and start the assault to cover your entry. Good luck, and Godspeed. Okay, so the Enclave's base is this mobile platform. This is what they want us to destroy. The only way in is through a ramp, and the only way to lower that ramp is from a pre-war air traffic controller here at the base. Sounds like the brotherhood is going to attack the base to act as a diversion so that we can get to the air traffic control tower. This new Tesla cannon is exciting. The Tesla cannon, even though it looks like a big weapon, is classified as an energy weapon, and it's actually quite light, weighing only 8 pounds. It fires big bolts of energy that are devastating and will deliver electrical splash damage to nearby enemies. Because of this, it's dangerous to give to companions and makes it a bit unwieldy, but we'll take it for a spin anyway. Now the turrets that attacked us came from this direction looks like this is the only way to go. The buildings around us are all bored and up. Looks like the Enclave didn't find much useful in these ruins, but they really defended this place. As we continue northeast, we see even more turrets. Adam's Air Force Base is huge. A sprawling ruin. One of the largest single zones in the entire game. There's an enormous amount of stuff to explore here. We started down here in the lower left-hand corner. The ruins forced us up a road to the northeast where we just killed those turrets and the hellfire trooper. This leads to a small boxed-in area bordered by two fences to the northwest, forcing us east. Going east we have two choices. We can go north down the road or turn into a little nook to the east where we see a number of enclave modular barriers. Here we find a floating pod with a first aid kit and another turret control system terminal connected to the turrets we already destroyed and we can take a staircase to the roof of this nearby building. We can follow this rooftop north. All we miss by not taking the road is a fence that prevents us from exploring any further west. We eventually reach a pipeline to Catwalk, which puts us out right in front of a bunch of turrets. With the turrets gone we can peek over the northwestern edge. There's that fence that we can't open. Those houses have no doors, we can't explore them. We see a platform to the northeast. Even more turrets moving north we find a floating pod overlooking a large field to the north and just then a vertebrate lands. And the Tesla can't and can destroy a vertebrate with one shot. That's not a bug, I didn't score a critical hit. That's the way the weapons designed. It's decent against other enemies but against vertebrates it can take them down in one shot. Heading out of the mobile pod, instead of using the terminal to deactivate the turrets we can take him out. From here if we look east over the ledge we see a green canopy with a little concrete nook just above it. If we leap upon the canopy we find a mini nook and a first aid box in this little nook. With the turrets and vertebrates clear we can take a staircase down to the ground floor. We see more enclave through a gap between the ruins to the east. Having moved east we see a bunch of hangers. The base continues off this way but let's backtrack a little bit as we loot the enclave bodies to make sure we didn't miss anything in this large area. This is where that vertebrate was trying to land but we blasted it out of the sky. In the northwestern corner behind a parked truck we find two ammunition boxes next to a number of pre-war destroyed robots. Perhaps these are all that remain. Of pre-war America's military robots that had been protecting Adam's Air Force space before the enclave moved in we find the wrecks even in the back of this military truck. Then back to the landing area we can take a staircase to climb to the rooftop of this other ruin and this rooftop overlooks the hangers. And my god this is overwhelming there are a total of ten hangers here. Looking north down the catwalk we find a table. After looting an enclave crate some ammunition in a first aid box on the table we find an artillery switch next to a sector one artillery note. From enclave high command artillery order number 447 sector one. The brotherhood of steel have cleared the outer perimeter of the base. Clearance has been given to use artillery strikes on sector one if and only if all other resources have been exhausted and targets are clearly visible. Exercise extreme caution. So the brotherhood has begun their assault. Looks like this was back up but I think I've actually already killed the guys down there. We'll call on the strike anyway. Cool. Cool. We can reach the ground and move towards the hangers. The ten hangers are divided by two columns with five in each column. When coming down from the rooftop we see two hangers immediately south of us. These are hangers for A and for B but they're blocked off and we can't access them. Only south of these are 5A and 5B but we also likewise can't access them. Facing east we see that the enclave has erected large blue energy barriers keeping us from the runway. We will eventually find our way to the runway but we have to travel through the other six hangers before we find a gap in the energy barrier. So we'll head north. We see vertebrates fly by. And enclave attack from hanger 1A. Heading inside hanger 1A we find the death clop pen door terminal on the wall locked with a hard lock. After hacking it we find an option to unlock and open the pen door. Oh but this was counterproductive. Despite still carrying the death claw control scrambler that's right valent court gave us this death claw had yet to be mind controlled so it didn't work on him. Once the exteriors around hanger 1A are clear we can go back and sign to explore lots of containers, two first aid kits on a shelf and we can climb some ladders to the top of these death clomp pens and we see that the enclave were dropping raw flesh into the pens. Starting out of hanger 1A we can move directly east to explore hanger 1B. We see that 1B is a bit of a storage hanger. There are a number of shelves covered in all sorts of goods. Some big machinery in the middle. It was then I heard someone but didn't see anyone moving west we see a gap in the wall. Ah. Fall back! It was an enclave scientist. From the scientist's body we find a finger so I don't feel too bad. A flamer fuel stash holotape and the flamer stash container key. Listening to the holotape. Little sister I've stashed away a considerable amount of fuel behind the spall building west of the air traffic control tower as you requested. The containers tucked away under some barrels and tires and no I couldn't safely confiscate an incinerator for you. That's your job. I took too big a risk hiding that fuel for you in the first place. If you do come across an incinerator please be careful. Anyway they're shipping me out to some relay station far west of here in the wasteland. I'm afraid I won't be seeing you for a while. Take care and good luck in all your endeavors. Your big brother. Ooh so we've got some incinerator fuel waiting in a big stash for us. What was that? A hidden stash west of the air traffic control tower. Alright we'll have to keep our eyes open. There's just a bunch of scrap and junk all over the place. Nothing much else of interest. There are catwalks we can climb to explore above all of this machinery but they're all empty. So heading out we can move north towards hangers to A and to B. We'll start by going to the northwest. We see a staircase leading to a platform in an alleyway between a ruin and hangers to A. We can't stop climbing the ladder overlooking hangers to A. We get attacked by enclave from a rooftop to the north. Instead of going to that rooftop we can take this staircase all the way down to the ground. I wanted to explore hangers to A first. On the ground we find a first aid box lying against a wall and a teddy bear inside a tub hiding a bunch of plasma grenades. Moving around we see a huge hole in the side of hangers to A, allowing us to walk inside from the west. We see that this hanger had a bunch of pre-war jets inside. Unclaved didn't bother to get rid of them. There's nothing on the main floor of this hanger so moving to the eastern side of it we can loot the various containers we find here, including a first aid kit on top of some filing cabinets. At an ammunition box in the southwestern corner. Even if we turn around and crouch down we find a mini-nuke hiding underneath this south-eastern desk. Then if we turn around and look north we find another mini-nuke hiding behind some filing cabinets near to the doorway. But that's it for hanger two way. We can't go south, we can't go east. Subturning around we can go back out the hole in the wall and we have to move south to round a corner and explore hanger two B. We find hanger two B mostly empty, we kill all of the enclave that poured out of here. Lots of desks and filing cabinets must have been an administrator place. We see a bedroom in one of these wrecked rooms we can sleep in this bed and inside the footlocker at the end of the bed we find a stash of caps. In the center of this hanger we see more death-cloth cages and blood all over the ground. In one we can peer through the cracks and we see a death-cloth. Now if we killed the enclave officer who was guarding the death-cloth cage outside of old only when we went there to get the Tesla coil we can use that same key to unlock this death-cloth cage door and this one is wearing the mind control device. So he'll fight on our side as long as we still have scribe valent court's device. On the death-cloth cage platform we see a bunch of blood packs on some of the nearby metal shelves. Then if we turn around and look west we see a mini-nuke standing atop two stacked crates. Getting there's a bit tricky. Heading south out of hanger 2b if we turn right towards to a we find a concrete ramp that leads to a catwalk going north above to b. From here we can leap upon a shack roof and follow it north-ways until we find a hole back into hanger 2b. From here we can step out on top of a death-cloth cage and then leap atop the two crates where we can loot the mini-nuke. Moving out of hanger 2b we can head north towards hangers 3a and 3b. And then we get attacked by enclave out of 3b. And the death-cloth didn't last very long. As I said in my shock-value video it's kind of worthless. hanger 3b is completely destroyed. The roof has collapsed in and we don't find anything for bothering to explore the rubble. Directly west from 3b is hanger 3a but this one is all boarded up. We can't get in sign to explore it. Just like all we have to do now is go north where we see the traffic control tower. But first I wanted to explore that platform that we bypassed earlier. So heading back to that staircase by 2a we can climb to the platform above where we find more enclave. This puts us out on a rooftop with even more turrets. Oh and then some vertebrates fly by. This dog on thing is too slow. Can I get it? Oh I should use vats. However we find another bot in here. And next what? The sector 2 artillery notice. But we see that the notice reads exactly the same. Oh push in the button. I mean it was fun. But we already cleared that area when we were on the ground. Oh. That's who was firing at me. I was wondering why I was getting drenched in fire. A hellfire trooper with a flamer in the floating pod behind me. That got it. Inside the floating pod we find a first aid kit on a table and another dirt control terminal. But by now I've destroyed all the turrets. So continuing north we see that this rooftop ends. All we can do now is take a staircase down to the ground floor at the bottom of the stairs. If we immediately turn around we find a small alleyway leading into the ruin. The alleyway twists and turns and ends at a staircase that brings us up a couple of floors to a hidden concrete ledge. Here we find the body of an enclave soldier. There's a ripper on the ground next to him. He has some psycho. He's surrounded by three first aid kits in an ammo box. On his body we find the enclave soldier log number one. Where is it? Where is it? God damn it. Where is...there we go. Oh yes. Prime you big son of a tin bitch you're gonna die. What? Are you kidding me? Already? Okay, okay, okay. Lot of shit going on. Prime you better be there. You bastard. Shit. How's this thing on? So this was one of the soldiers that targeted Liberty Prime before destroying it. And from all appearances he was high on psycho. At the time looks like after destroying Liberty Prime he came back to his little hidey hole here. Accidentally oh, dude. Moving out of the alleyway and turning north we find ourselves standing directly before air traffic control. And we remember what we heard on Big Brothers holotape to little sister. His stash was hiding under some barrels just west of the air traffic control tower. So heading that way sure enough we find an alleyway back here and at the end of the alleyway hey a bunch of barrels. Guess we gotta move them. Move barrels. Move it. Hey look at this. An enclave crate. The key fits. Inside we find 400 units of flame or fuel. Wow, that's a whole lot of flame or fuel. Wonderful get an opportunity to use it. Continuing down the alley puts this out on the other end of this big concrete structure. We are now northwest of the air traffic control tower. On this northern side we find a ladder that allows us to climb to the roof of air traffic control where we find some turrets. There is another staircase we can climb to get to the top of this roof. It's on the other side of the building and this one has a turret control terminal. Either way, after the turrets are down we can move east across the roof. We then find a catwalk leading north along the eastern edge. Then we find more turrets. Turning around we see the mobile base crawler on the runway. The runway has huge holes and craters, likely from when the bombs dropped 200 years ago. We see enclave fortifications, sandbag barricades and modular barriers. But before we head down there we can turn around and walk up some steps to enter the air traffic control tower. Once inside we see a staircase going up and a path to the left and right. Going right we find a number of cubicles and then... After killing the sentry bot we can walk around looks like this is a big loop around this central staircase column. Nearby we find a lunch box next to a sniper rifle. A few containers going all the way around until we get back to those stairs. But going back around towards the sentry bot again we didn't get to explore it because of the sentry bot. We find a first aid kit on a bookshelf right out front. Then in one of the cubicles we find a first aid kit on a wall, a teddy bear on the desk and a nukakola quantum under the desk. There is a bathroom over here but it's mostly empty. After to where we killed the sentry bot we find a staircase going down but it's caved in with rubble so that leaves nothing left then to go up the staircase. After looting a first aid kit on a wall we can climb climb climb to the very top until we find a door that leads back outside. We find ourselves inside air traffic control. We see the mobile base crawler just off to the southeast and just then three vertebrates fly in from the northwest. Gosh that reload just takes forever. Also I could aim better. God won at least. With the vertebrates gone we can read the nearby enclave field research terminal. Mobile platform control. We can try to contact the mobile platform control center unavailable. Radio silence protocol A45. We can try to contact the vertebrate flight control and we get the same message. Our only option is to open the mobile platform loading ramp. Ramp open. I didn't see anything physically happen to the mobile platform over there but looks like we got to climb down to get inside. Moving inside and all the way back down we can step back out to the roof of the flight control tower and then take the stairs down back to the runway. Heading down from air traffic control we can loot a number of crates and containers behind some barricades here then we can move east to the runway. As we walk towards the mobile base crawler we see enclave forces firing upon someone to the south. Moving south down the runway by these are brotherhood forces. We can't let them die time to pull out the sniper rifle. This must be the distraction. The brotherhood has cleared the path all the way here and met us right outside the crawler. We can explore this runway. Looks like the brotherhood took out a few vertebirds along the way. We see vertebird wreckage all over the place but just then the enclave sends more vertebirds at us. I always seem to get one. Turning west. That's the rooftop next to the presidential metro where we came from. These are the hangars that we explored as soon as we got to this part of the base. But it looks like the force fields are still in place. We can explore the trucks we find here we don't find much. The one we do find three ammo canisters. Then continuing south we see hangars 5a and b but with the force fields in place we can't go over there to explore them. As we reach the end of the runway we see that this is the end of the air force base. All that's left are a bunch of trees. This part of the base is surrounded by a large concrete wall. We can cross the runway to the east to see what's over here. As we get closer we see a building covered in turrets. We can crouch down next to this crater to take them out. Moving closer we see a bunch of ventilation, shafts and pipes snaking around the exterior of this building. There's a big fence blocking our way around it so we can't go behind and the staircase that led to the roof is crumbling so we can't go up. But the door to this building is still functional. As we get closer we discover the Adams storage facility. We arrive in a workshop to the left we find a bank of bookshelves with one ammo canister and one, two, three first aid kits. Turning around we find another ammo canister on a ruined metal shelf. Then a wooden box with some buff out on top of some metal boxes. Near to here, against the eastern wall is a bookshelf with yet another ammo canister. This one locked with an average lock. Then turning north we see a big vaulted chamber to the west and a whole bunch of these enclave modular barricade pieces lying around. Looking west we can go down to this ground floor. Getting down and turning left we find a rapid torch flamer lying on a shelf. And next to it are some 308 caliber rounds, a stack of missiles, a stack of flamer fuel, some mini nukes, a nukikola quantum and three regular nukikola. This rapid torch flamer is a unique item. It has exactly the same stats as a regular flamer. The difference is that its firing animation is much shorter. Instead of having to fire up when pressing the trigger it burns immediately. This gives us greater control over our ammunition. Each click consumes one piece of fuel. With this weapon we can not only get into the battle much more quickly but we don't waste excess fuel. This then we notice a pile of skeletons on the ground of this warehouse. They are at the bottom of the stairs. How do we explain this? Well perhaps these are the remains of wastelanders and scavengers who were occupying the airbase before the enclave moved in. Perhaps they killed them and dumped them here. Or perhaps they were prewar airbase workers who were working in this facility when the bomb dropped. With the turrets somehow turned on them and is responsible for killing them all. Stepping over the skeletons we see more on the next level and then we can take the staircase all the way up to the top level where we see another skeleton who died just as he was about to open a door back outside. The door puts us out to the rooftop. Moving forward we see a toppled over radio antenna and the remains of that staircase that we saw from outside. We can use it to hop on down safely to the ground. Now, with the airbase clear and the brotherhood here to pack us up, all we have left to do is to walk up the ramp and enter the mobile base crawler. But I'm all out of time. We'll pick up right here where we leave off in my next episode. I publish many videos each and every week on my channel so if you don't want to miss the next one, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have any feel like you're still missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a brand new shirt in the shop, Lions Pride. The brotherhood does its best but sometimes it takes a little something special. That's where Lions Pride comes in. This brand new design features every member of Lions Pride. Well, every member still alive after Redden died. You can find this design on a number of different men's, women's and children's styles of shirts, as well as on a bunch of other products like smartphone cases, both iPhone and Samsung, posters, stickers, hoodies, sweatshirts, tank tops, all sorts of stuff. You can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. More than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.