I see you, the mighty hunter. Only what you're hunting, ain't an animal. Or a man is something different. Maybe something more than human. But what's this? I see a man in a white outfit standing over your prey. And he says something. It's hard to make out. But I'm trying, kid. He says Z247 initialize factory reset authorization called Zeta 5-3 kilo. And then he falls. And he's still. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. Zeta 5-3 kilo. After clearing the radar compound, we can loot the dead, disarm even more frag mines, and then continue east, where upon the signal gets stronger still. We're now at around 70%, and it gets stronger the further east we move. Soon we discover green tech genetics, and standing outside the door to this skyscraper, our Corsair signal strength gets into the 90s. I think we've found our destination. There's a Corsair in this building. Now that we know this, we can turn off the signal so the beeping doesn't drive as crazy, and open the door. We arrive in our Ruins lobby, moving forward we find a body draped over our reception desk, and another draped over a balcony above. These are the bodies of gunners. The gunners are a mercenary faction here in the Commonwealth. We haven't bumped into them yet, but these are the guys that pushed Preston Garvey and the settlers out of Quincy. So we kind of have a beef with these guys on the behalf of our friends. Looting this lobby area, we find very little scrap. We can't get to the balcony above from the lobby as the staircases ruined. However we do find a door in the northern wall. We're running it all the way to the top, we arrive on the balcony, and creeping forward. The Corsair is on the second floor, kill on sight, send reinforcements to the lobby in case there are more. The gunners are communicating through the building's pre-war PA system, and it sounds like they're gonna send some more gunners down here. We begin to find some armor upgrades on these dead bodies, because the gunners are better armored than raiders. And the only humanoids we've fought during the main quest up until now have primarily been raiders. We see two doors leading to another room, bathed in sunlight, and moving that way. Yo, okay, they've seen me. Looks like there's at least one turret in that room, but first the gunners. Oh, no! That's the hell! Alright, the room is clear. We see that the gunners have jury rigged some sort of turret system, with a bunch of red cabling in this room, but then we hear a rocket launcher. Looking up, we see that the commotion is coming from a window on a floor above us. The gunners are fighting something, and they're not fighting us. It's gotta be the Corsair. After a while, the sounds of battle dies down, but then another turret finds us. After looting the bodies we can explore this vaulted room, we see an elevator against the Northern Wall, but it's not active. We gotta find a way to power this up. Heading downstairs to this ground floor, we find trees growing in pots, an edo-tronic on the ground with rotten food inside. And on one of the gunner bodies we find a dirty army helmet. Alright, at last, I can wear a piece of head gear. And it looks good on Nate. He should feel comfortable wearing it, as he spent a good portion of his life in the army. After exploring this ground floor, we catch the attention of turrets that were on the other side. They couldn't see us very well because these walkways were in the way, but I think that's all of them. Knock on wood. In the southeastern corner of this room, we find a first-aid kit on a pushcart right next to a terminal. Green-tech genetics. We find three options in the first materials gathered, objective, gather material and ready for transport to HQ, status currently in the process of separating the last bunch of material tossed down to the lobby. Romarks still plenty of material to gather, should notify HQ regarding the quantity they're looking for, so we don't overdo it. Overdo? Whoops, he spelled that wrong. And the next one, defenses. In the short time we've occupied the building, we've managed to set up first-tier defenses in the lobby and first floor of the courtyard. We've installed three turrets and hooked them up to the terminal, the miner in the process of setting up turrets to cover the courtyard sky bridges. They should be ready for operation any day now. Well, it looks like they got this set up before we found them active when we arrived, and in the last one, we find turret control. All the red wires in the courtyard lead to this terminal, and from here we can deactivate any remaining turrets. We see the scrap that the gunners were talking about on the terminal, huge sheets of metal, most of which is rusted, lies on the ground in the middle of the courtyard. So the gunners came here for scrap and resources. Looks like they're building an HQ out there somewhere, or fortifying it. I wonder if we'll ever be able to find it. With the bottom of the courtyard explored, we can take the staircase back up to the elevator level and cross the sky bridge towards the only door. Oh! Alright, we just deactivated that turret. Okay, no need to destroy it. What's going on down there? How many are we dealing with? Alright, looks like they know we're here, but they don't know our affiliation. As far as they're concerned, we might be with this coarser. Turning left first, we pass the turret, and we find a door in the northern wall. This just leads to a pre-war office room. We find a body on the ground and a little else. So heading back to the hallway, we can follow it north. The hallway continues to the north, but we find another office to the left. Here we've got more gunner corpses we can loot. And a few containers, but that's it. So back to the hallway, we follow it north until it turns a corner. What's all this then? Cautiously? Ah! That is... Oh, fine then. Stepping forward, we loot the bodies. We see a staircase going up to the right, but these gunners came out of the door to the left. Heading through the door, we see another office space. This one has a Nukikola cherry on the ground next to an enamel bucket, a little bit of scrap, with an ammo canister and a novice locked Kim cooler on a table. Back to the hallway, we can take the stairs. The sorcerer is now on the third floor, reports of the second and third are in the east wing or the courtyard. Oh great, that means they're gonna come running. Sure enough. Mmm. What the heck? I don't know if I'm gonna be the girl. I know for real. There are cats where they love how you just race in a battle there, but you kinda get in my way. I wish I could give them a gun or something. Whoops. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Who's that? We find two bathrooms here. In the women's we can loot the bodies, we find a skeleton next to a toilet with a plunger in it and pre-war money. She was trying to plunge money down the toilet when the bomb dropped. Perhaps green tech genetics finances weren't kosher. In another stall we find some men tats on the tank. Out of this one we can go to the other one. In one stall we find a telephone on a toilet and a Y block on the ground. It isn't until we open the next stall that we see the significance of this Y block for here on the ground are three more blocks. G-A-R-Y-G-A-R-Y-G-A-R-Y Gary? Gary? Oh, Gary. Though the soul survivor shouldn't be too freaked out about this, he's never been to Vault 108. Though the lone wanderer might be disappointed to learn that some of the Gary clones escaped. Out of the bathroom, we return to the hallway. We see this staircase blocked up with furniture. And the hallway is blocked up with furniture. So we gotta go into this room to the right. Hey! I'm on him. Ooh, God'sworth, you okay there, bud? Looks like he got hit hard, but I don't think we're done yet. Oh, hey, he's awake. Up up anytime, bud. There we go, he's okay. Took him like a champ. Well, I'm not sure if he's gonna be able to get out of this room. I'm not sure if he's gonna be able to get out of this room. There we go, he's okay. Took him like a champ. Well, the other gunners are hiding so we can explore this back nook real quick. We just find scrap moving forward we can flush the gunners out. On a table between two couches, we find a perk magazine. Bingo. Massachusetts surgical journal. Pay now. Get better later. Insurance scandal sweeps medical industry permanently inflict 2% limb damage. Taking the brain out for a stroll. Yes, God'sworth with my brain legs. Moving forward, we still see red ticks on our pitboy radar. We'll loot these bodies cautiously. There's a break in the wall to the left right next to a door in the wall to the left. Peering through the door, we don't see any enemies yet. We can finish looting this area. We find one pre-war skeleton next to a filing cabinet. And that's it. So moving back to the doorway. Aha! Go! Push! Raise up ahead! Stepping through the door. Barricade stairwells in a hallway, did you have it already? While the other gunners were ahead of them, we found these hallways already barricaded. Peering through the window, we see that we are in that room where we saw and heard the fighting coming from earlier. It was in this hallway that the gunners met the corsa. Stepping back to the door, we see the hallway continues to the south, but there's a little broom closet here. Not much in here, but a toolbox. And we see the hallway. We see a Tesla trap on the ceiling, but it appears to already have been triggered. Yeah, we can't loot the microfusion cells from it. At the end of this hall is a ramp that leads up to the next floor, but there's a room to the right. Moving into the room first, we find more office cubicles. Here we just find containers that we can search for scrap. There's one new cacola on a desk, and a bowling pin on another. That's about it. We can return to the hallway and move up the ramp. Whoa! The gunners are fighting the corsa at the other end of that sky bridge. After the noise dies down, we can climb the ramp. There is a door in the wall to the left, but a terminal just on the other side. We see a red wire leading from the courtyard to this terminal. I bet we can deactivate some turrets from this. Oh! The window opens automatically. Quickly, we can access the terminal, but we find that it's locked with a novice lock. After hacking it, we see that it's another turret defense system. There are two turrets connected to this terminal, so we can go ahead and deactivate them. But moving towards the sky bridge, gunners on a sky bridge on a level above us are shooting down at us. We can let Codsworth lure them out. Oh, Codsworth! Oh, Codsworth! Oh, they took him out real fast! Poor guy, but we got him, and Codsworth is back on his feet. Good robot. All right, I think we're clear moving across the sky bridge. We find chunks of gunner along the way. We arrive in a room with a chemistry station. We can loot the bodies and then search for scrap. We don't find much. So moving north, we see this room, rounds a bend leading to a break room. We've lost contact with sectors 2 and 4. There is a door directly behind us. That's our way out. Looting the break room first, we can turn off a radio, and then loot a first aid kit on the wall. Then, opening the door, we arrive in yet another hallway. The left is a dead end. There's a path to the right and a door directly in front of us that leads to a restricted area. Unauthorized persons keep out. I'm sure enough the door is locked with a novice lock, but we can pick this sucker. And inside we find gutters that are already dead. I guess the Corsor went into this room, killed them, left the room, closed the door, and locked it behind him. That's the only explanation. There's some scrap here, and an explosives box that's rigged with a makeshift bomb. We can disarm that, then loot the box. We can peer through these windows to see Cambridge. It's a beautiful day outside. Lots of big skyscrapers to admire. We can loot some fragments here. Moments like this make me thankful I'm new settings for nausea. I guess he said that because of the dismembered gunner corpses on the floor. And then we find an office locked tool box on this cabinet with scrap inside. Moving out of the restricted room, we can head south down the hallway. Here we loot even more gunner corpses. God, did one Corsor do this? Holy heck! In the next room we find a rubble ramp made from the ceiling of the floor above, and another gunner corpse without a head peering down into this room. Moving up the ramp. What the? Oh, why did I do that? Direct hit! With the whine of form, the back! With these gunners dead, we can get to the top of the ramp, where we find more. That is incoming! This room appears to be a communications room of sorts. We find computers and consoles all over the place, but not a lot to loot. It leads to a hallway through a door to the south. There are vending machines to the right, but we can turn left to loot the bodies of the gunners we killed from the ramp. Here we find an ammo box on a chair, and behind a wall we see a door that leads to another room. Ah, hmm. Alright, well I'm not sure where that goes, we'll connect the dots later. Turning back around, we can move west towards the vending machine. Inside the vending machine is a Nuka-kola quantum and a Nuka-kola cherry. Then we can open a door in the northern wall to find a long hallway. Moving down the hallway, we see another door leading to the courtyard to the left. And another novice lock terminal connected with more red wires. Hacking the terminal, sure enough we've got turret control. We see two turrets connected and we can deactivate them. Before moving to the courtyard, we can finish looting this section. There's nothing in this nook, so turning around, we can go down this eastern hallway. We find a room with a green door to the left, and inside is a Django's the Moumaki, with plasma cartridges at his feet. In the next room, we find toys and cigarettes. Gosh, these green tech genetic guys were having fun in here, with an ammo box in a cabinet behind us. Back to the hallway we move east to finish exploring it. There's a nook to the left. It's empty but for scrap, continuing east, we find another office to the left. And here we find some missiles with a stealth boy on a table. On the next table is some buff out, and then we find more scrap. Back out to the hallway at round the corner and leads back to that door we saw. Oh, oh. And it was booby trapped. There's a pulse mine on the ground. This connects to the room that had the rubble ramp, so we've connected the dots. Heading back to the terminal by the courtyard, we can peer in to look for danger. Ensure enough. All back to original location, the portion is near the elephant. It's above us this time. We are nearing the top of green tech genetics, and it looks like the coarser is fighting them on the top floor. We never see any targets, so we can't join in the fight, but then we see movement. Oh, the fight's coming to us. Moving to the end of the walkway, we turn right. Oh, but the path is blocked. Hunkering down with the laser rifle, we can try to pick them off. Oh, look at this time. It's a challenge. Nice try. Okay, think that's it. We find a missile launcher on the ground here. We can snag this just in case. And then back in the hallway, we see the path to the left is blocked, so turning right, we pass by this furniture barricade and move into the room to the left. We see a chalkboard here with an interesting scene. There are three chalk exes and three bullet holes with what appears to be old blood dripping down the wall. Someone decades ago, perhaps longer than that, executed three people against this wall, but their bodies aren't gone. After looting these cubicles for scrap, we arrive through a broken wall on the other side of that furniture barricade. We see the hallway continues to the east, but we find another office room here, peering into the office. We don't see any enemies so we can safely explore it. There are even more toys on these computer terminals. The guys at Green Tech Genetics must have just been smoking and playing all day. We find more gunner corpses draped over furniture. And on one computer terminal, we see another interesting scene. Two toy blocks and eight ball and some silverware. I ate you with a knife in a fork. Is that Gary? Did a Gary clone eat somebody? The rest of these cubicles are empty, so moving through a door to the south, we arrive at the other end of that hallway. There is some furniture here, but there's no way forward. To move forward, we need to go through this broken wall to the south. It's here where we saw more gunfire between the gunners and the coarser, but he's far above us now. Sounds like the gunners have their hands full. The coarser's after the girl. Anyone alive needs to get up to the top floor immediately. That's an order! After the girl? Oh no, do we got a civilian here? Oh, that's got to complicate things. We find an overdue book on a table on this balcony. We can snag that to get some free money at the Boston Public Library. Then heading up a staircase to the east, we follow it all the way up to the next floor. Here we find that the staircase continues up, but there's a laser tripwire in the way, and it's connected to a fragmentation grenade bouquet. We can disable the laser tripwire, then loot the grenades. But before moving up, I want to finish exploring this floor first. At the end of this hallway, we can peer through a window to see a crack on the floor above, but we don't see any movement up there. So it looks like there is a door, and this hallway has a dead end. So our only way forward is to go up at the top of the stairs. We've moved on another long hallway to arrive in a big room with red carpet, and more gunners. We triggered a Tesla trap there, and I think that's it for this room. Before moving in, we can head down a rubble ramp where we find a gunner corpse and a novice locked explosives box. Inside, of course, we find more explosives. Back up the ramp, we can move into the red room. We see computers and consoles, paper scattered all over the floor, and more red wires connecting to another novice locked terminal. Here we can access spotlight control, tripwire control, and turret control. In spotlight control, we see two connected spotlights. We can go ahead and activate those, I guess they're already deactivated. I wonder what activating them will do. Then into tripwire control, we can activate these as well, because they're already disabled. Backing out of this, we can access turret control. We see one connected turret, and we can disable it. Now I'm thinking this white door is our way out, so before we go in there, we can move to the west where we see another door that's locked with an advanced lock. I couldn't pick this, but if we could, inside we find a storage room with an ammo box, a first aid kit, and a novice locked terminal right next to a wall safe. Hacking the terminal, we find all the same entries we saw in the last terminal with one extra, safe control. We can disengage the lock on the safe, and inside we find a bunch of ammunition. But again, as I said, I couldn't loot any of that. So moving away from this storage room, we can open the white door. To find gunners... There is a turret in this corner, but it's not hostile, because we deactivated it. The gunner's dead, we can try to loot. We don't find much until we get to the north-eastern corner where we find a storage room. Inside is a novice locked toolbox, with scrap inside. That's set for this bottom floor, so we can take the stairs. On this landing, we can loot the bodies of the gunners we killed, and we find an elevator that works. But before we go in the elevator, we can continue climbing these stairs, to find two rooms on either side. One room is filled with mannequin parts, and a bunch of scrap. And the spotlights are shining on us. These are the ones that we turned on using the terminal. They keep beeping, but there are no other consequences, so not exactly sure why we would want to turn them on. And the next room we find scrap in a traffic cone. Nothing else of interest. So, to move forward, we can head to the elevator, and take it up to the top floor. We arrive at the end of a long hallway. Spotlights. Bade the ground in the room ahead. Moving forward, we find a master locked terminal, but I can't hack this. So using a silenced 10 mil, we'll take out the spotlights. If we could hack this, inside we find security door control. This allows us to open a nearby security door, so we can loot the room. Inside we find two fusion cores on a computer console. But since I couldn't hack it, I won't take any of this. There is a scientist's skeleton on the ground next to the terminal, and a bunch of computer bays to the right, into the left. Exploring each of these individually, we don't turn up much. And so to move forward, we open a white door in the northern wall. This leads to a staircase, with an advanced locked door on the ground to the left. Right next to it is an advanced locked terminal. Ah, I couldn't hack or pick either of these. But if I could, in the terminal, we find door control, and in the room, we find Mentats, another fusion core, three vials of Radax, and scrap back to the hallway. We take the stairs up. We see another pre-war skeleton on this landing, and continuing to the top floor, we arrive on a balcony overlooking the staircase, and another door leading to a brightly lit circle. Whitely lit circular room, stepping forward. I don't know the password, I'm telling the truth! I don't believe you are. Oh God, please, no! All he had to do was tell me the password. Now, are you going to cooperate? Oh God, oh God! Okay, okay, just don't shoot, let me think! I'm going to get in there. It's just a matter of time. Tell me the password. Look, I already told you I don't have it! I'll help you find a way in, but listen, we took the girl fair and square, and all we wanted the little compensation to return! You are in no position to negotiate. Okay, okay, just let me think. Time is running out. No, please! Wait! He's trying to get a password from them, but a password to what? Exploring this room, we find a door against the southern wall, but before heading through it, we can access this novice lock terminal to the right. Hacking it allows us to open a security door to the right that lets us loot this side section, but all we find is one ammo box and one first aid kit. There's a similar story on the opposite end of this room, another novice lock terminal, whoop, with some mintettes, on a desk to the right. Hacking the terminal, we can disengage the lock, open the door, and explore this nook. Inside is a novice lock toolbox, with scrap inside and mintettes. Then we find more mintettes in one of these console drawers, but that's it for this security room. Heading through the big double doors, we arrive at the bottom of a staircase. There is another pre-war skeleton amongst the rubble, another in one of these bins, and across from him is a bathroom, with beer bottles in the toilet. In the middle of the room, we find two staircases, one through this door to the north, climbing this staircase first, we find a balcony, overlooking the other staircase. On the balcony is a desk with a terminal, and on the desk is a capstash. But we can't go any further this way, so back down the staircase, we can return to the room and climb the stairs in the middle of the room. At the top of the stairs is a nook or cola machine with one nook or cola inside. There's a nook with a door leading to a room that has a blasted out safe, with anaphries inside and red poison on top, continuing up the staircase. We arrive at the top floor, and a voice calls out to us. You. Come here. Oh, it's the coarser. He wants to chat. Okay, well, in a minute guy, I'm still looting here. There's a door around the corner here, and inside we find more scrap, light bulbs and cigar boxes and stuff. Alright, well, looks like we got ahead inside. You've been following me. Oh, here's coming out. Oh, he's coming right towards me. Uh, we can back away. You. Come here. We can keep backing away. Get over here. Oh, he just, he just really wants to chat. We can keep backing away. And yeah, he'll follow us from the entire building if we let him. Well, I don't think I want to have a conversation on a staircase, so trying again, we can burst into the room. Are you here for the synth? If we walk away from the conversation, he attacks. Thinking fuck, I'm gonna say, I'm gonna hit. And we could try to kill him with that missile launcher we found on the floor below. But the blast from the missile launcher knocked him down a floor. We gotta go chase him down now. Wow, we knocked him down several floors. He's walking around down there. We can try to take him out. Taking that hostile. But that's not ideal. Maybe there's a way we can talk to him. Maybe he can just give us the Corsor chip. Are you here for the synth? What synth? That's not why I'm here. Uh, I'm here to pick up an order. Two large pepperoni in a cow's zone. Name is fuck you. If you're not here for the synth, then you're here for me. What do you want? Yeah, I'm here to help the synth. And you think I'll just hand her over to you. You've been tracking me. What do you really want? And just who is this synth anyway? A fugitive. Run away, institute property. I'm shutting her down and bringing her back. You, on the other hand, will die like the rest of them. And he attacks. Or... We're on a need to know bases here. And you... don't need to know. Soak yourself. You'll die like the rest of them. And he attacks. Or... I need what's in your head. And he attacks. Or... I'm here to kill you and take what's inside your head. That... you cannot have. And he attacks. Z247 is a powerful enemy. I fought him many times trying to shoot this video. I found that the best way was to disarm him. Pulling out a machete we can hack at his limbs until he drops his gun. And suddenly he is far less formidable. Eventually, his stealth boy powers down. And he's got to pull out another one. And while he does, we can use bats to end him. At least try to give us a challenge! But that's the violent way to end him. There is another way. But in order to do this, we need to cast our mind back to what Mama Murphy said. What was it she said before we left for green tech genetics? He says Z247 initialize factory reset authorization code Zeta 5-3 kilo. If and only if we got this prophecy from Mama Murphy, we find a new dialogue option when talking to the coarser to say... Z247 initialize factory reset authorization code Zeta 5-3 kilo. How? D... you. And he collapses to the ground. On his body is a coarser chip. And we also find a coarser uniform. This uniform takes up every armor slot but provides significant bonuses. 30 ballistic damage resist, 15 energy damage resist, and 15 radiation resistance. It also gives us one endurance and one perception. It's a pretty good jacket and compares well to Kellogg's outfit. Kellogg's outfit has more energy resistance at 30, but it has no radiation resistance. And it doesn't give us any special stats. The coarser jacket looks amazing. It's the same thing that we saw the coarser wearing in Kellogg's memories. Looks like all coarsers working for the institute wear this same tech. Now it's possible that we can get up here fast enough so that the coarser doesn't have time to execute the gunners. If we do, we find the gunners alive. We could kill them. Are you here for the sin? The coarser is still alive, he doesn't react, and there appears to be no consequences for killing them. Or we could try to talk to him. I don't want to die. I don't want to die. Get away from me. And they don't really say much. But while we're exploring this room, a voice calls out to us. Help me! We find a woman in a locked room, and we can speak to her through the shutters. Hey, he deserved to die. I know you're not here for me, but I can't get out. Not on my own. I'm going to have to trust you to help me. Relax, lady. It's gonna be fine. I promise not to hurt you. If you knew me, you probably think otherwise. I guess I don't really have a choice. Do I? Who are you? We'll talk when you open the door. I promise I won't run. The guard put the password in a toolbox. Over there, under the stairs, use it to gain access to the terminal. And open the door. Moving to the staircase, like she said, we find a red toolbox and inside is the Green Tech Genetics password. Heading to the terminal, we can now open it. And from here, we can turn a nearby elevator on and open the security door. Doing both the door opens and the synth walks out. This is K1-98. Thank you. I don't know what to say. Don't say anything. Just get out of here. Who are you? You don't have to say anything. You're welcome. But all you must not have heard. I'm a superhero. I do this for a living. My Institute designation is K198. But I prefer Jenny. So yes, I'm a synth. If you hadn't already guessed. I knew they'd send a coarser. I just didn't think you'd find me so fast. I think I would have lost him too. But then I was captured by these mercenaries. And all this happened. It's again for your help. I'm going to look for supplies before heading out. And before you ask, no. I don't need any more help. The Commonwealth is unforgiving. I need to make it on my own or I'm dead. Maybe we'll meet again under better circumstances. I hope we do. So this is a Gen 3 synth who was trying to escape the Institute. So not all synths that the Institute makes are weapons. They're not all coarsers. All spies designed to replace humans in the Commonwealth. This one talks, looks, and acts like a human. She's even given herself a human name, Jenny. After the conversation, she runs over to these orange cabinets and begins to poke around at them. She doesn't say much if we try to talk to her. Thanks again for your help. I'm going to look for supplies before heading out. We could kill her. I've lost everyone's still alive. She goes down easy and oddly enough, Cod's worth has no reaction to us straight up murdering her here. But there's another way this could go down. If before the coarser fight, we race into the room, access the red toolbox, loot the password, and then unlock the security door, Z2, thanks us. What have you done? Thank you. Now, if you want to go back to the hospital, thank you. Now, if you could just give me a moment, K198. Your little adventure is over. It's time to go home. No, please. You don't have to do this. Relax. You won't feel a thing. K198. Recall Code. And back into the room. Strap. Shoot this. He walks into the room and uses the Recall Code to deactivate K198. And sure enough on her body we find a synth component. She really was a synth. But from here on out we have the same conversation with the coarser. There's no way to walk away from this encounter with the coarser still alive. No matter what choices we made, we now have a coarser chip. And maybe a new synth friend. We can loot this room before leaving, heading up a staircase we find a fat man on an end of dungeon steamer truck. Oh, wish I had known this was here. Inside the trunk is a bunch of ammo, caps, armor and weapons. Turning around we see the staircase leads to a door. Here we find a terminal that we can use to unlock this door. This door leads us outside to Cambridge. We arrive on the roof. Here we find a scientist skeleton next to an ammo box. We've got our great view of Boston, but there is nothing up here. If we were in power armor this would be a short jump out, so we could be on our way. And if we weren't in Cumbered we could fast travel. But instead we'll head back inside. Before taking the elevator we can talk to Cod's worth to see if he has any wisdom to share about the coarser chip. Your thoughts? Sir, please be sure to exercise a bit of wisdom when it comes to having over that chip. I can't imagine the harm it could rot if placed in the wrong arms. Then we can access the elevator that we activated and take it back down to the ground floor. We come out that elevator door that was previously powered down. And from here we can leave green tech genetics. Now that we've got the coarser chip we need to find somebody who can tinker with it. Virgil can't do anything, he's a super mutant. His thumbs are too big. He won't be able to finagle it. The only person we know who might be able to do something with this is Dr. Amari back at the memory den. We'll head back to the memory den and hand her the coarser chip in my next episode. I've published new Fallout episodes each and every week on my channel. So if you don't want to miss it, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already but you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxford. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wider ray of colors. You can find them on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comment sections of my videos and access to ox emojis that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with the next episode from the full story of Fallout 4. Oh my god! Terrific! It's a fight now! I've been just watching all this then! Oh!