Mama Murphy. You'll need a site. It's telling me, Manta will give us the right high for another insight into your destiny. So it's Manta's this time? They're good. More of a chem for scientists and tech types. But who's to say, oh, Mama Murphy ain't a closet genius. There you go. Ah, that's it. I can feel the site opening up. You're all looking for a man. He can help you. But he ain't gonna be the man you expect. He's somewhere deep and dark surrounded by folks with nothing but cruel intentions. But there's an echo, something in the past that can help you. When you meet the fat man and the angry woman, tell them to remember the quarry and Lily June on the rocks. And they'll let you and your friend pass. Don't mind me, kid. The chems are just acting up a bit. I'll be fine, eventually. In our last episode, we finally arrived at Diamond City. It took us a while, but eventually we learned from the locals that the best man to help us find Yongshan is a detective named Nick Valentine. To find his office, we went down an alleyway behind the marketplace. And once there, we followed the neon signs. The signs pointed down another alleyway which ended at a red door that led to Valentine's detective agency. But on the other side of it, we find a woman in distress. Told her you're luck wouldn't last forever. His ties. Oh, Nick, the bills. Huh, forget the bills. Something wrong. Another stray coming in from the rain. Frayed you too late. Office is closed. Wait, who were you? You the detective? Me? No, I'm Nick's secretary. Handle his appointments, his papers. That's sort of thing. Well, that's what I used to do anyway, but now Nick's disappeared, and I can't keep a detective agency open without a detective. I didn't come here to get brushed off. Well, you can take a seat and wait for the next time again, because the detective ain't coming back. Sorry, I'll come back later. No, that's not what I mean. We're not just close for the day. We're close permanently. I know you must be busy, but I won't take much of your time, Miss. It's important. You don't get it. But if we pass the charisma check. You're right. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to be rude, but it's just the detective. He's gone missing. Nicky's missing. What has he gotten himself into this time? Picture on milk carton time? If only it was that simple, right? Do you have any idea how I could find him? He disappeared working a case. Hey, I'd love to help, but there's a small matter of expenses. Don't play games with me. I'll pay you if you find Nick, but it's going to be 100 caps. That's the reward, and it's not up for negotiation. Or if we pass the charisma check? Money. I do have 125 caps in the old rainy day fund. Come on. This is your boss's life we're talking about here. Fine. We'll make it 150 caps. Last chance. Put some real money on the table or we're done. OK. You win. 200 caps is all I have. Don't worry. I can help. Tell me what happened. Nick was working a case. Skinny Malone's gang had kidnapped a young woman, and he tracked them down to their hideout in Park Street Station. There's an old bolt down there that they use as a base. I told Nick he was walking into a trap, but he just smiled and walked out the door like he always does. Who's this skinny Malone character? I don't know much about him, but he's from Good Neighbor, and that means he's in the well-pressed suits and machine gun school of thuggery. You said Malone's from Good Neighbor? Yeah, it's a tough neighborhood. Northeastaways. People with power there care about two things. Style and body count. And if we hadn't found it already, Ellie marks Good Neighbor on our map. No way am I getting mixed up in this. Looking out for yourself, huh? I guess I can't blame you. Not like I could charge across the commonwealth and find Nick without getting myself killed. Look, I got a pack up. Just go. I'll find him. You have my word. Thank you. Nick should be easy to spot. He's always wearing that old hat and trench coat get up. Please hurry. With that we complete the quest, Jewel of the commonwealth and start the quest, unlikely Valentine. So after coming all this way, the detective we're looking for is missing. Oh, we've got to go rescue him. Before we do, we can snoop around his office. On his desk is a copy of Robco Fun. Yes. It includes the Zeta Invaders holotape game that we can play on our Pip-Boy. Exploring further, if we head behind the door, we find a bedroom and lying on the ground beneath the bed is the note, the mysterious stranger. Case, the mysterious stranger. Sightings of a man dubbed the mysterious stranger have been popping up sporadically across the old US for years now. Sighting is the most case, the man's an amoral lunatic. Worst case, a prolific serial killer. All anyone knows is his MO. Appearing suddenly, killing without remorse, disappearing without a word. The stranger has no known accomplices, no clear method for selecting his targets, no calling card left behind. Sightings range from the NCR all the way to the east coast, stretching back decades. Now he's come to the Commonwealth. Last thing this place needs is another psychopath running amok, time to start putting together the pieces to put this one away. Description, human male, outfits vary, but most recent sightings describe a large overcoat and fedora. Guy has taste, I'll give him that much. One man, multiple men, a ghoul with minimal scarring, might explain the long passages of time between sightings, appears and disappears suddenly, suggesting preternatural infiltration abilities, slash access to advanced cloaking tech. All but earliest descriptions suggest the stranger uses only conventional arms, making infiltration training more likely. Perps like this make me wish the institute had sprung for thermal detection before giving me the boot. Wait, what? Does this mean that Nick Valentine is somehow associated with the institute? King's locations, Commonwealth confirmed, Capital Wasteland confirmed, NCR, Old Rumors, Shady Sands, really old rumours. This is a bit of an Easter egg, it is of course a reference to the perk we can get called the Mysteria Stranger. I went into greater details about the Mysteria Stranger in my video on the guy that you can watch here, but he appears in every Fallout game going all the way back to Fallout 1. Valentine's note about him using conventional arms recently is because in Fallout 1 he could appear with a plasma rifle, and in Fallout 2 he can sometimes spawn with an H&K G11. In all subsequent Fallout however, he only appears with small arms, revolvers. Valentine mentions old rumours of the Mysteria Stranger spotted in NCR, that's a reference to the events of Fallout 2, and Shady Sands is of course a reference to Fallout 1. Shady Sands being the name of the first town, the Vault Weller stumbles upon after leaving the Vault, which subsequently evolved into NCR over the years. That's it for now, but perhaps we'll find more notes and more cases lying around the office after we rescue this missing detective. Heading outside, we can say goodbye to that before heading out. Hey mister, that interview you did with Piper is really selling, usually a free coffee. Looks like Piper has already published the interview we had with her, and that gives us a copy of View from the Vault, and it comes in three parts. View from the Vault, part 1. Whenever I take a walk through Diamond City, there are so many things people tell me to be grateful for, purified water, working lights, electricity, security. True what we have would have been unthinkable even a few decades ago, but it's easy to forget that even after all the progress we have made, we are still living in the shadow of the world that was, a world before the threat of radiation, before the super mutant, and the feral ghoul, and the synth. So as fortune often has it, I crossed paths with Nate, Vault Weller, a person who is experiencing the commonwealth for the first time. What would his fresh set of eyes say about how far we've come? Is Diamond City the great green jewel we have always claimed it to be? Before we begin to answer that question, we have to know who he is, where he comes from. And here, the interview changes depending on our dialogue options when giving our interview to Piper. This section of the interview can differ in three ways. If we chose the sarcastic option, the paper reads, he began our interview joking about his time in the Vault. It was just me and a thousand guinea pigs. They turned carnivorous. Of course this reporter knows that life behind the sealed geared doors of a Vault Tech facility is actually supposed to be a bastion of the old world, a preservation of life before the bombs. But, if instead we answered, this part of the interview reads, in speaking to him, he stressed that his time inside the Vault was normal. But what is normal for a Vault? This reporter knows that life behind the sealed geared doors of a Vault Tech facility is supposed to be a bastion of the old world, a preservation of life before the bombs. But if we were honest with Piper and told her exactly what happened to us in the Vault, it reads, to my surprise, he did not have much to say about his life in the Vault at all, as he spent all that time staring at a piece of frozen glass every day for over two centuries. That's right, he isn't just a Vaultweller, he's an original Vaultweller. He spent his entire time on the inside cryogenically suspended. The interview continues in part two. So what does Nate have to say about seeing Diamond City for the first time? This part of the interview has three possible alternatives. Can you even compare the two? The world out here? It's not even close to the one I left. She quotes him and continues, while we like to think of our city as a shining jewel, it's worth remembering that not everyone comes here by choice. Sometimes people are forced from the comforts of their homes, and as the largest settlement in the Commonwealth, this is where they end up. Most are just looking for refuge, but sometimes they come here desperately looking for something or someone. But if we responded to this part of the interview by saying, I've been having too much fun blowing things up to think about it. She quotes us and says, it's important to note that Nate was not actually blowing things up at the time, and that perhaps he was referencing the violence that is all too common when you're traveling outside the wall to the more dangerous parts of the Commonwealth. How curious though that his first reaction to the horrors and tragedies out there would be humor. However, if we responded by saying, You're all living in rusty shacks, killing each other. You make God the smell. She quotes us and then says, painful words. So much of civilization was lost when the bombs fell, and we have rebuilt without the comfort and security of the old vaults. However, arrogant and privileged Nate's statement seems, we have to remember where he came from, and what we must look like to him. Perhaps all this anger is really just to cover up what he has lost. But if we respond by saying, She quotes us and then says, hope. When was the last time someone in our city talked about hope who wasn't some politician fishing for points in the next selection, making empty promises at the wall, but our outsider hasn't let the cynicism of our strange world get the better of him. This is all the more remarkable because of the reason he came to the Commonwealth. And here, this part of the interview continues the same way in all versions. You see, Nate has a son, Sean, and even though they were in the relative safety of a vault, someone broken and took Sean from his parent. And that parent is now risking everything, wandering through this strange and unfriendly world of ours in order to save Sean from his kidnappers. We all know the rumors and whispers that surround every missing person in Diamond City. The guilty looks we pass to morning family members as we thank the wall that this time it wasn't us. You can end up dead in the Commonwealth for a million reasons. Why spend our time worrying about kidnappings? Why indeed? And the interview is continued in part 3. It's easy for us to be cynical about the missing. We have spent so long knowing the institute is out there, but knowing so little about them. They are not the only ones responsible for kidnappings, but the fact that they sometimes are, and the fact that we have been so perilous to stop them when they do, causes us to treat all victims of kidnappings as if they are a lost cause. But the people left behind, those loved ones, friends, and neighbors who may never see the faces of those taken from them again, they do not have the luxury of being able to just look away. They have to carry that loss with them. Even if everyone else tells them to move on and forget. I ask Nate to make a statement to Diamond City. To give us an outsider's perspective on what it means to lose a loved one and how it feels. Maybe in some way, it's how we all should feel. Maybe we've forgotten what the right human response to these tragedies are. And here Piper ends the interview by directly quoting whichever option we chose. If we said, You can only take it one day at a time. Just keep going. That's all anyone can do. Or if we said, And finally, if we chose, And here the interview ends. And it seems like the people of Diamond City have read the interview, people will comment on it as we pass by. Hey, you were in the paper, right? You're 200 years old. Looking pretty good for your age, huh? Hey, you were in the paper, right? Volkdweller with a thousand guinea pigs. Got a twisted experiment with that. Hey, you're that Volkdweller from the paper. Read that interview you gave. Thing you said at the end, about taking one day at a time, I can relate. Hey, you were in the paper, right? Volkdweller's things. It's that scary. Hey, you're that Volkdweller from the paper. Read that interview you gave. Thing you said at the end, about getting revenge, right on. You're getting pretty chummy with that reporter, huh? Be careful there. The mayor's got it in for. Read that interview you gave. I think you said at the end, about having hope across the capital. But to continue, we need to head out of Diamond City to track down Nick Valentine. Ellie told us that he was last seen heading towards Park Street Station. Park Street Station is a bit of a walk away from Diamond City, but it's also fairly easy to get to. Heading out the main gate, we move forward and then turn left at the first road. This brings us between a few ruins skyscrapers, and oftentimes the road is covered with rubble. If we keep straight, we eventually arrive at the Boston Public Library. And here we turn right. This is a dangerous path because we go right by Trinity Tower. It's easy to get distracted by the super mutants here. But once they are dealt with, we continue east down this road, and try not to get seen by the raiders who occupy an apartment building to the right. As we pass the raider apartments, we turn left. We follow this alley, pass to keep outside, until we find a pre-war military vehicle with the word swan painted on it. Here we turn right to enter Boston Common. Nearby we find the body of Mikael, and on his corpse is a torn letter. I covered Mikael and what he is doing here, and by video on swans pond that you can watch here. Continuing north down the road, we turn left at the Boyleston Club, and continue forward. We pass by a Protectoron station with a light, but wait a minute, doubling back with the sign just outside. And the sign says something about a Freedom Trail. In our last episode we heard something about a Freedom Trail. In order to find this rail road, we needed to follow the Freedom Trail. It looks like this is where it starts. We'll have to keep this in mind for later, but right now we have more pressing concerns. Continuing north, we round a corner and discover Park Street Station. Heading down a ramp, we open the doors to Park Street Station, and arrive at the top of an escalator. Creeping down the escalator, we over here a conversation. I'm telling you, joining Skinny Malone's crew was the best decision we've ever made. Look at this place! I still say Malone's weak. We caught that detective snooking around him. What does he do? Locks him up. Like he ain't got the balls to just kill him. Well don't let this new girl hear that. She'll start swinging that bad of hers and you're facing to the right and no face left. So Skinny Malone has Nick Valentine, but it sounds like Nick is still alive. Rounding the corner, we can take these guys out. Heading up off the right side. Ah! What happened? I'm making no sense how it's done. Am I right, sir? And this righteous authority that Paladin Dance gave us is amazing. I love it. These triggermen are dressed like 1930s gangsters. Does everyone in this good neighborhood dress like this? With the triggermen dead we can loot the place. We find an ammo canister behind a Vault-Tec crate. There's an overdue book on a bench. And moving north down a hallway we find the restrooms. Heading into the men's restroom. There's a skeleton beside a stall next to a gas can. And in one of the stalls, the toilets missing. Instead we find an enamel bucket. A chair. The urinals are empty and so moving into the women's. We don't find much until we see a broom leaning against a stall door. But when we open it... Whoa! Run away! Ooh, someone had rigged up a fragmentation bouquet trap. Thankfully we dodged it. Oh and there was the switch. Opening the next stall, we see that it's empty. With the bathrooms explored we can move back to the station entrance and finish our sweep. There's a door against the southern wall. Here we find a bunch of scrap. There's a capstash under a register. And a terminal on the desk. Inside the terminal we find three options. In the first purchase tickets. Function terminated. Terminal vending functions have been shut down. Please contact a system administrator for more information. And the next one, notice terminal shutdown. Notice the purchasing of subway tokens for this station will automatically cease on February 11th, 2077. To coincide with the station closing. Any questions should be addressed to the station manager or a Vault-Tec representative before your employment termination date. Again, Park Street terminals will cease to validate token dispensations after this date. Previously issued tokens remain usable at all other Boston subway and monorail service platforms. Thank you. So Vault-Tec bought out Park Street station to build a vault. But what was Park Street station not used by people who needed the subway? This was directly beneath Boston Common. You'd think it would have been... Busy. And the next one, employee notice. Dear employee ID. I regret to inform you that your station, Park Street, will be closing due to a purchase agreement with Vault-Tec Corporation. As such, we will be going through our records and redistributing our many valued employees to other stations and departments. The automated system should identify your new location. You have been relocated to... Employee Terminated. Thank you. And we look forward to many more years working with you. Oh, this is brutal. I guess they had no plans to replace the Park Street station with a new one. Backing out of the terminal, we find a novice locked door to the left. After picking it, we find a storage room. Lots of scrap and glue, some purified water and a cap stash on a shelf. Then an expert locked floor safe. No way I could pick this. I couldn't pick this, but if I could, inside we find shotgun shells and more ammunition. After looting a couple of solitary caps by some duct tape. Oh, and a third one hiding under the duct tape. In a locker, we can move out of this room, pass the corpses, and through the turnstiles towards the station. Soon we find a staircase leading down. There are some crates and anucocole machine at the top here, but nothing of interest. Except for a mattress we could use to heal on up if we needed to. So heading down the stairs, we find a bathroom scale. This is a trap trigger. We can disarm it. And then carefully round the corner to try to find this trap. And there it is. A makeshift bomb made from a cigar case, strapped to the wall. Moving down the stairs, we see Triggermen before us. We can carefully take them out. I'll take the key. Out! At least no man in front! I was just getting warmed up! I told this man! With this part of the tracks clear, we can move down. We are on the southern side of the tracks, but there's not much loot or much worth mentioning on either side of the tracks. So I'll focus only on things of interest here. After looting the bodies, we do find a mattress in the middle of the tracks next to some cram, if we're really in a bind here. On the southern side of the tracks, we find a door leading to a small locker room. There's another bed here, and a few lockers and containers filled with scrap, but nothing else of note. Moving to the eastern end of the southern side, we find another small room with yet another place to sleep. Here we find a sleeping bag with a kimbox, with medex and mentats inside. With the southern end explored, we could move to the northern side. We don't find anything until we go all the way to the west. Here we find a novice locked door. Hacking it, we moved on a hallway littered with pre-war skeletons. There's a handmade tripwire here. Let's see what was it attached to, and there it is. A bolt-action rifle trap. There's a sleeping bag here with an ammo canister, and at the end, dirty water piled upon an expert locked box safe. I couldn't pick this, but if we could, inside we find bottle caps, ammunition, kems, armor, a hunting rifle, and a stealth boy. A tidy hall. Then, moving to the eastern end of the northern side, we find a small room with a terminal inside. But this terminal has all the same terminal entries as the one that we read back at the station entrance. So backing out, we've finished exploring this side of the tracks. We need to follow the tracks, north-east. There are two tunnels leading down. Taking the right tunnel first, we arrive in a section lit by a barrel fire. There's a nukakola quantum hiding in some rubble at the eastern end of the southern track, but since this is a dead end, we can move east down the northern side. Immediately to the left, we find a door leading back south west. But before we can explore it, We hear that cod's worth isn't trouble. Oh, come on, cod's worth what you gotta do this to me. The sub-machine gun wasn't doing nearly the damage I hoped it would, so switching back to righteous authority. When the coast is clear, we can try to find cod's worth. Oh, there he is. Getting me in trouble, stinking robot. Turning around, we can explore down this southwestern passage we found. We find a staircase leading up and then a ladder leading to the back bay. That takes us outside. We don't want to go there. We'll file this away for later, because now we know our way out. But turning back around, we can explore this large, well-construction site. It looks like we find cinder blocks and big bags of concrete everywhere. Earth moving equipment and trailers covered with shipping canisters. Looks like Vault-Tech was in the process of dismantling this section of Park Street Station when the bomb's dropped. I wonder how far they got on their construction of the Vault. On the eastern end of the northern track, we find another sleeping bag. But that's it for the tracks, so moving down to the construction site, we find a staircase leading up to a vault door. A vault down here? Yeah, cod's worth pretty shocking, right? This is the door to Vault 114. And with our Pip Boy, we can open it. Of course, it makes you wonder how a bunch of good neighbor mobsters got inside with the door closed and presumably locked. Did they have Pip Boys? I guess they must have. But the gangway extended, we can cross it to enter Vault 114. And as soon as we do, we hear a voice. Damn, I hate it when they open the door. Why is that thing so loud? Hello? That you, skinny? D'y'la? This should be f-! T-! Channel that! With the triggerman dead, we can explore the Vault entrance. Against the southeastern wall, we find a door that leads to a medical room where we find some cigarettes lying on a counter. Of course we do. Nearby is a Vault Tech Terminal, with two pieces of right away and two pieces of MEDEX lying on the table, accessing the Terminal, Confidential Confidential Confidential Vault-Tec clearance SL4 required employee eyes only violation VTP0101 We find two entries in the first welcome employees Greetings after many months of preliminary construction We are pleased to welcome members of the technical and scientific staff to the newest edition of the Vault-Tec family vault 114 Like you, we are excited to get started on our latest endeavor, but we are not quite ready to open the great big gear door to our new residence yet As you've probably noticed, we've contracted outside of Vault-Tec for construction on this one since it is utilizing a unique space By repurposing the former Park Street subway station, we will be seeing a decrease in building costs, as well as a shorter timeline for construction This fits perfectly with the Vault's observational studies, which will be revealed in a future memorandum However, because of this, we will be seeing a lot of civilian traffic until construction is fully completed It is up to you to help maintain the security of Vault 114 and its experiment from prying eyes without proper clearance Lose slips, sink ships, of course, they also result in immediate termination and possible criminal investigations Welcome once again, Vault-Tec management Huh, I'm surprised this terminal entry is so cavalier about the fact that they are actually running an experiment here I mean, in control vaults, they kept it secret from absolutely everyone except for the overseer And even in many of the other vaults, the experimental nature of the Vault was kept secret to everyone except for maybe the scientists working there But here they were letting everyone working here know that there would be an experiment here even before the Vault was completed Odd In the next one, private, science staff only Unlike the last one which was apparently not private, you'd think this would have been on a locked terminal, but it wasn't Warning, this memorandum is meant for members of the Vault 114 science division only or those with appropriate security clearance levels, SL, 4 plus All others must exit this terminal immediately and report your infraction to the overseer or a member of Vault-Tec security Thank you Wow, they expected their employees to be super honest, social science division As mentioned in your briefing, Vault 114 will be hosting high ranking members of local and state government local luminaries, business people, and their families Future members are aware that they will be cohabiting solely with others of Boston's upper class However, the luxury aspect of this vault has been highly exaggerated to the future residents Multiple families chosen randomly will live and sleep in single room apartments, dining and bathing will be in shared quarters, and amenities will be minimal In addition, we are currently interviewing for the overseer position from many candidates Our goal is to find someone with no supervisory or government experience and hopefully with a strong anti-authority bias Human resources tells us that the interview process has vetted many viable candidates By taking away the luxury and authority these groups saw in surface life, we hope to study their reactions in stressful situations As such, please do not undermine the new overseer's authority at all during the experiment, even, and especially if it may cause physical discomfort, embarrassment, or even harm to residents Thank you, Vault-Tec management Oh, Vault-Tec, more experiments involving social engineering I've always wondered what they planned to do with the results of the various experiments they undertook Especially if they are the ones who caused the apocalypse, if the world is already destroyed, what's the point of having results from their experiments? At any rate, backing out, we found our first aid kit with kems inside in this room, as well as a clean, pristine, brand new Vault 114 jumpsuit We can explore this section right by the Vault door, we find a door to the north, but it's locked and requires a key We can't pick this, after looting a few pieces of scrap nearby, including a novice locked toolbox under a table We can move through the western door and loot the bodies of the triggermen This room has a couple of bottles of purified water on a table, and when ready we can open a door to the northwest to continue forward This door leads to a staircase that goes down, turns left, and goes down even further, and then we hear yet another voice So I got a question Why the hell would anyone build a Vault out of a subway station? This place is like the opposite of airtight, because they weren't planning to use it if you're more on We used to pull this gun and cut all the time back before the war Yet a bunch of Union Boys to work some construction job never go nowhere Keep everyone on payroll Well presumably they were gonna use it if they had an experiment designated for the Vault But maybe it didn't need to be airtight or even constructed properly due to the nature of the experiment An uncomfortable Vault, a squeaky, leaky Vault Might be perfect for making a bunch of snobby rich people from before the war uncomfortable We find the owners of our voices down a hallway to the southwest But you are instead With the enemies dead we can loot this room of all of its valuable scrap and then head down the southwestern hallway We find the bodies at a cross section a couple of containers sitting here, but there's nowhere else to go that to continue southwest and open the door We arrive at the top of a catwalk, overlooking a huge cavern This part of the Vault was not finished creeping forward we see Triggerman patrolling the catwalk and we can snipe at them We suck a new hide Something to fork I'm gonna need a dead Nice to see you out Not this time There's bar! I'll leave the show all around With the Triggerman dead we can head down the catwalk and explore this area We find a staircase leading down to an earth and floor It doesn't support this vault was unfit when the bombs fell I can't imagine exposed a dirt with the look they were going for No, Codsworth haven't you been paying attention? It was under construction when the bombs fell Come on buddy, keep up Exploring the ground doesn't reveal much All we find is that the catwalks lead to another door leading further into the vault to the northeast In this square room we find a hatch in the floor leading to a room below We see that the Triggermen have been guarding this room and gambling while drinking shots of whiskey There are some boxed foods and bottles lying about but there's not much here and so we jumped on the hole Carefully One and then The other Alright, in this room we turn around to find another Vault-tech terminal with some bobby pins on the desk However, this terminal is the exact same as the last one that we just read I'm not sure why they had so many community terminals with exactly the same entries This room has very little scrap so moving forward we go through a door to the east, head down a hallway, and then open a door to the west This leads us deeper into Vault 114 We arrive in a small locker room with a door in the eastern wall and consoles in the southern wall There are windows to the south but we don't seem much just yet heading through the door to the east We round a corner to go down a long hallway where we find a door to the west This leads to the Vault Atrium and as we open the door we again hear a voice How you doing in there, Valentine? Feeling hungry? Want a snack? Keep talking, Meathead It'll give skinny Malone more time to think about how he's gonna bump you off Don't give me that crap, Valentine, you know nothing you got nothing Really? I saw him writing your name down in that black book of his Wozzy cheating card shock I think were his exact words Then he struck the name across three times Three strikes in the black book But I never... oh no... I gotta smooth this over fast What? But as soon as he turns around he spots us I have to do better than that Nothing like a little dust up to get the oil, so... And with that, Dino's dead We have arrived on a mezzanine level of the Atrium We see a floor below us but we'll head upstairs first, move through the door to the north and loot the body of Dino On his body is the overseer door password And then we can peer through the overseer's window to see who he was talking to Hey you! I don't know who you are but we got three minutes before they realize muscles for brains and coming back Get this door open It's Nick Valentine and he sounds like Humphrey Bogart, perfect voice for that Fedora You gotta hack that terminal to open up this door Alright, well we gotta hack this terminal but we've got the overseer door password so we can just access it You know what I have a feeling that this Nick Valentine is gonna race off after we open the door and rob us of an opportunity to loot Though he's not going anywhere, he said we have three minutes There's no lock on my end, you gotta use that terminal by the door So retracing our steps we can go down the staircase and loot this mezzanine level We need a bed underneath the staircase, some food and ammo canisters lying nearby Then against the western wall we find an advanced locked door I couldn't pick it but if we could we find a room filled with quite a stash of goodies Lots of scrap on a cart, a first aid kit on a wall and more scrap on a shelf The northern side of this atrium mezzanine level is empty But against the eastern end right next to the door we entered the atrium through We found a door leading to a hallway that goes down to the basement level Alright well I don't want to get too far ahead so let's head all the way back upstairs and finally Access the terminal that's keeping this Nick Valentine imprisoned Greetings Vault Citizen, please take a number, we could take a number Our number is 998, please wait until your number is called and the overseer will be with you Have a nice day Also the residents of the vault had to take a number to talk to the overseer Bierrochrissey, brilliant, in the next one we can override door controls And without the door slides open, creeping inside we meet Nick Valentine Haha my knight in shining armor, question is why does he come all this way? Risk life and limb, an old private eye What? He's a scant? Whoa, what are you? Told ya, I'm a detective Look I know the skin in the metal parts ain't comforting but it's not important right now The only thing that matters is why you went to all this trouble to cut me loose I need you to find someone but it's complicated I don't exactly know where they could be or how long they've been gone Well I've done jobs with less, somehow nice and simple never makes it onto the menu in my world I'm tracking a murderer, the bastard who shot my wife took my son I don't even have a clue who he is or where he's gone So you need a little angel of vengeance, huh? Well I don't usually go after blood money but I guess I can make an exception My son, Sean, is missing He was kidnapped but I don't know who took him or where they went Missing kid, huh? Well you came to the right man, not the right place I've been cooped up in here for weeks Turns out the runaway daughter I came here to find wasn't kidnapped She's skinny Malone's new flame And she's got a means streak Anyway you got troubles and I'm glad to help But now ain't the time let's blow this joint then we'll talk So it wasn't a kidnapping, this Darla is skinny Malone's new girlfriend Well that Nick Valentine races off but before we follow him we can loot the overseer's office On the overseer's desk is the speech bubble head Perfect Let your words be your weapon All vendors permanently have 100 more caps for bartering Then next to the terminal are two holotapes In the first Vault 114 interview number three This is Vault Tekken Review number zero three For the position of overseer for Vault 114 interview subject, Benjamin Beasley Mr. Beasley, as overseer of Vault 114 That would you settle a discreement between two of your vault residents Well I would obviously take it through the proper channels Assuming neither of their requests were against the law of course This is of course assuming that the conflict had already gone through all the other members of the Vault's residence council That I plan on organizing Vault residence council you say Yes of course people need government, they're in for it I think it's a civic duty of every ret blooded American patriot to serve Yes I think we have everything we need Thank you for your time Oh, alrighty Well I look forward to hearing from you soon Yes I'm sure you will Please make sure to fill out your non-disclosure agreement on your way out Well let's get to know that Gareth is alive and well in the Fallout universe It seems like for some reason Gareth wasn't too keen on that candidate Next we can listen to Vault 114 interview number 21 This is Vault Tech interview number 21 for the position of overseer for Vault 114 Interview subject, Kimberly Wease Hello Mrs. Wease How do you do? And may I just say what an honor it is to even be considered for the position of overseer Ever since I was a little girl in mock government I dreamed that one day I would have the opportunity to lead a community to greatness My teachers all told me I had leadership potential and without my guidance The student council vice president those bake sales surely would have failed Just the thought of being able to organize and run this small group to show them a better way To lead them to a future so bright that they My goodness, looks like we're out of time What? We just started Yes, yes, thank you if you could just send the next candidate in as you may Oh, of course, did I mention I was head of my debate team? I'm sure you did, thank you Wow, she went full on Leslie Nope on the guy Well she seemed really capable Maybe too capable I wonder why he didn't like her Heading behind the desk we see a third hollow tape on the other side of the terminal Vault 114 Interview Number 87 This is Vault Tech interview number 87 For the position of overseer for Vault 114 The candidate has refused to give his real name And has only provided the name the Subkin Harry That's right, I ain't telling you nothing My name is the name I call myself Not the rank and number the government branch on me No sir Fascinating, Mr. Rob Subkin, would you mind telling me why you're distrustful of the government? I've seen what they do Come up the works with red tape and bureaucracy Take every hotter and send and use it to fund their illuminati, free mace and sex parties I'm a free man, I should be able to live as I see fit I taxes, pay for them streets, and alleys, and dumpsters I'll sleep where I want Sir, according to this you haven't paid taxes in many years I seen the back of them a brax old boxes Not for consumption, job you tell me what to do I'll eat what I want Sir, you may just be the perfect candidate How would you like to be the new overseer for Paul 114? I ain't wearing no goddamn tie, what pants? Wow, they wanted to make this guy overseer I guess the silver lining is that they never finished this vault So Subkin Harry, well he got to stay in his dumpster where he could listen to more podcasts about Q Reading the Terminal, welcome employees Greetings overseer, I hope this message finds you well and you're moving to your new position has been an easy transition Your appointment as overseer came with high recommendations from our interviewers and we hope you will be the perfect fit that everyone believes you to be Yeah, I doubt Subkin Harry could even read this, but never mind Please do not be nervous as we have chosen you based on your natural qualities, decision-making skills and unique personality We believe that you possess innate abilities as a leader that will bring this vault into the new world Nuclear war creates So don't worry, just go with your gut and everything will work perfectly Good luck, Vault-Tec management Aye aye aye, Vault-Tec's nightmares never cease to amaze With the overseer's room explored we can head out and as soon as we do, Nick Valentine starts talking Malone's crew here used to be small time Muscled out of the old neighborhood by bigger players They found this place, don't know what happened to the previous owners but they're not exactly around a charged rent Empty Vault, perfect hideout So Skinny Malone and his crew got hustled out of good neighbor Must be some dangerous people at good neighbor Hold up, I hear some of them coming There they are, how do you want to play this? The only job in the check on the prison What does that take so fucking long? A Dino with brass and that's detective and get down here Where the heck is he? Sounds like people came looking for Dino, but Dino's dead Come on, it's coming Get the strike button I don't think we're out of it With the triggerman dead, Nick Valentine waits at the door out of the cafeteria Allowing us to loot the place We don't find much, we find one novice-luck toolbox against the southern wall But no other containers to speak of So heading back to Valentine we can move forward Hard and loud, huh? Well, gets the job done Bad for whoever cleans up the floors No, I've never actually got him to trigger anything other than Hard and loud I wonder if he says something different if we stealth through But you know me, I can't stealth Here he waits at this door We passed a bunch of doors down this hallway And we're gonna explore them Heading back to the door that led to the cafeteria at the bottom of the atrium We can explore this first door to the right which leads to the depot It's unlocked, here we find some purified water at the bottom of a locker And a little bit of scrap There's a skeleton with a pocket watch shoved into a locker Then crossing the hall we can move into the showers Looks like the shower was broken Someone was fixing it before the bomb's dropped Another shower has a bucket and some a braxo cleaner But the showers aren't otherwise empty Then crossing the hallway to open the final door This leads to the lavatory The toilets are cordoned off with simple curtains This vault was definitely not a vault of comfort With the hallway explored we can move back to Valentine This door's on the fritz Let me see if I can get it open Almost got it There we are How will it be a lot easier to do when the lock isn't on the other side? He picks the lock and then moves upstairs We follow quickly behind him until we reach the top level Moving forward he apparently tries to sneak by this trigger man I don't want to do that But I wasn't having any of that But he doesn't want to stop to smell the roses He races forward We move through a bedroom into a hallway Down another hallway Until we find more triggermen in another bedroom Why is Guy? He again raises forward And we have another fight on our hands You and Valentine are both of us But here he stops We can retrace our steps all the way back through the various bedrooms we crossed To get a point of reference from which we can explore all the rooms we passed Turning back around we find a novice locked door to the right This leads to laundry We find scrap, that's it The triggermen had set up a resting area over here where they smoked their cigarettes On a crate next to a chair we find a copy of astoundingly awesome tales Perfect Again, who could stop time? Gain plus five action points Alright Moving into the first bedroom We find that the containers are all empty So moving into the hallway We find the southern section empty But there's a door directly across from us This leads to the second bedroom we went through but it's blocked with crates So we can go down the northeastern hallway to enter that bedroom Where we find a novice locked wooden crate on the floor With a death claw hand inside I don't know what the triggermen wanted this for We find a bowler hat on one of the dressers Think I might try this on for a bit But that's about it Moving into the next hallway We can cross it to enter the kitchen We find three bottles of whiskey And a huge selection of clean pre-war plates There's a ton of pre-war boxed foods on a shelf And even more in the fridge This incidentally is a great place to visit if you're into settlement building One of perfect tin cans and pre-war cutlery to use to decorate your settlement with When at last we're done we can move east to again meet Nick Valentine More stairs Who built this damn vault of fitness instructor? Following him up, he turns right Blows past even more doors and again gets into trouble I'll have food for you He unlocks the door and opens it But we can take the opportunity to head back to the room that he blew through and explore it The first room to the right was a nursery We find cribs laid out I guess they were expecting a lot of babies in the vault There's a bottle of whiskey on a box Some toys on the ground A first aid kit on the wall Crossing the hallway we find another depot This one is locked with an advanced lock I couldn't pick it But if we could, inside we find a bunch of paintings And a bunch of box safes stacked on top of each other The bottom two are already open We just find scrap in these On a shelf next to them are two caps stashes And then the safe on top is locked with a master lock Inside ammunition and some scrap Heading out and moving to the next room We find it empty Heading out and moving to the next bedroom We find it empty as well Just a lot of empty whiskey bottles all over the place We were really cramped The residents would not have liked it here Heading up the stairs We arrive in the vault check-in room And we can view the check-in terminal Property of Vault-Tec, check-in Please remind residents to one Line up in an orderly fashion Two, change into Vault suits immediately Three, save all questions for orientation We find four options In the first residency A1 The Line Hun family Sean, wife Martha, sons John and Mitchell The Flyherty family, Michael, wife, Joan, daughter, Elizabeth The Pressley family, Jenna, husband, Richard And the next one, residency A2, O'Malley family, Michael, wife, Jennifer, son, Robert, daughter, Ellen, infant Baker family, Ralph, fiance, Sarah, dog, spike, do not allow The Yancy family, Murray, wife, Amy, sons, Jimmy, and Ronnie They couldn't take their dogs And the next one, residency B2 Madison family, Bill, wife, Belinda, daughters, Gene, Mary, and Melissa Smith family, Sean, wife, Mully, son, Paul, daughter, Stephanie, infant And we can read the last one, residency B3 O'Brien family, Kevin, wife, Megan, sons, Ryan, Brandon, Logan Daughters, Mully, Anna, Kayla, Brenna, infant Wow, they were busy And Todd Gates, a bachelor Oh, a family vault with one bachelor That would have been a recipe for disaster We find boxes next to the terminal filled with vault suits When ready, we can open the door to Park Street Station And immediately on the other side, we are confronted What are you doing? You coming to my house? Shoot up my guys? You have any idea how much this is going to set me back? I wouldn't be here if it weren't for your two timing games, Skinny You ought to tell it to right home more often Oh, poor little bow and tongue I'll change you got beat up by a girl I'll just run back home to daddy, shall I Shoot a left and a lone nicky This ain't the old neighborhood In this vault, I'm king of the castle You hear me? And I ain't letting some private dick shut us down now That I finally got a good thing going I told you we should have just killed him But then you had to get all sentimental All that stupid crap about the old times Daughter, I'm handling this Skinny belongs always got things under control Oh yeah? And what's this guy doing here, huh? Valentine must have brought him here to rub us all out That wasn't the plan originally, but hey Tempting Hey, I'm the one in charge here You got something to say? Say it to me What's the deal with you people in Nick anyway? Darlas are run away My father wanted me to bring her back home Turns out she skipped town to be with my old pal Skinny Malone Mob boss Never thought he'd manage to scrape together a big enough crew to take over a vault Guess life's full of surprises Hey, who's running this show here You got something to say? Say it to me Now it's at this point that we remember something This whole situation seems familiar somehow What was it, Mama Murphy said When you meet the fat man and the angry woman Tell them to remember the quarry and lily-joon on the rocks And they'll let you and your friend pass If and only if we got Mama Murphy's prophecy before we arrived here at Vault 114 We find a yellow charisma check at the very bottom That says, remember the quarry This incidentally was a charisma check that I couldn't fail Wait, Skinny Remember the quarry Lily-joon on the rocks Ring any bells How the hell did you know about that Okay, you two can go You got until the count of ten Then I don't care what happened back in the old days You're dead What are you doing, Skinny? Kill him! No, Dala, they get one chance to leave Skinny Malone's putting his foot down My mother was right Your mobsters are all just talk We better get out of here fast One Where that Skinny Malone begins to count down And Darla abandons him She runs off into Park Street Station We can try to talk to her a few times as she goes What a mess I got myself into My parents were right I should never have gotten mixed up with people from Good Neighbor Screw Skinny Malone Who needs that big glue anyway Some men's Skinny Malone turned out to be I'm going home to my parents Screw those lowlife gangsters But in this way, we leave Skinny Malone and his mobsters alive Darla lives and we get out safely Everyone survives If however, we didn't get the prophecy from Mama Murphy Instead we find an orange charisma check To convince her to leave And if we fail it Darla, listen to me You have a home to go back to You don't want to throw your life away with these thugs Don't you try to confuse me Get him, Skinny They all turn hostile But if we pass it I... I... You're right What am I doing? I've gotten all mixed up Darla, where... where are you going? Home Skinny Where I should have been all this time This is goodbye for us Oh come on, Nikki You cost me my men Now you and your friend cost me my girl My friend here just did you a favor, Skinny I'm sorry You always did have bad taste in women Now that she's not around to feed that temper of yours Maybe you'll see sense and let us walk You still owe me for two weeks in the hole You smug over confident ass Yeah, here I... All right, you get to the count of 10 I still see your face after that I'm getting both of you down We better get out of here fast One And if we pass it We'll see you again I'm going to get out of here One And if we pass it, we get the same ending That we would have gotten with Mama Murphy's prophecy Though this option required a much more difficult speech check We can pass freely Alternatively, we could try to pass a red charisma check To encourage violence Skinny's no good for you, Darla You put a bullet in him, and I just might let you go What kind of girl do you think I am? Kill him, Skinny If we fail, they all turn hostile However, if we succeed Why? You're... You're a bad boy Sorry babe, but this is the end for us And for you You double-crossing mall Teach me to fall for a great set of legs A fixing game If we pass it, Darla turns on skinny alone And if we pass it, Darla turns on skinny alone And if we pass it, Darla turns on skinny alone And if we pass it, Darla turns on skinny alone And if we pass it, Darla turns on skinny alone And if we pass it, Darla turns on skinny alone And if we pass it, Darla turns on skinny alone And if we pass it, Darla turns on skinny alone And begins to thawak at him with her baseball bat Making the battle a little easier What? So much for skinny alone I think he's lighter or heavier with all those holes in him Uh, the bullet is probably out a few ounces Good night, sweet prince Here's to all the old days So much for skinny alone killed Darla during the fight. Here he says, It's going to be an awkward conversation with Darla's parents when I tell them their daughter bit the big one. Well, at least the case is closed. Let's get out of here. It's a service ladder that should take us right to the surface. However, those aren't the only ways to get out of this conundrum. If instead of passing any of those speech checks, we chose the sarcastic option or we asked a question, we find a new dialogue tree with two different speech checks. You and Nick know each other? It's trouble making here used to be a real headache back in the day before we got kicked out of the old neighborhood. Must have done this dance a hundred times. Enemies are kind of the closest thing you get to friends in these spots. Now quit stalling. You're going to talk, talk. At that point we have three options. We could pass two different Christmas checks or we could say. You're fat, you're ugly and it's time you and your crazy bitch said goodbye. And in which case they all attack. I don't think I like that one very much. We're make you try to end things peacefully. This is all just a misunderstanding, skinny. You know that. You let us walk and we won't come back. Like hell you won't. Don't you get it? All the other crews in the area will see this as weakness. Then they'll come for me. Sorry. Time to give you both the hard goodbye. If we fail they all attack. But if we pass it, you and Nick shot all of my crew and you expected just. All right. You're lucky I still owe him for that time back in the quarry. I'm going to give you two until the count of ten before I forget my good manners and start shooting up the place. What are you doing, skinny? Kill him. And here we get the ending where skinny Malone lets us go. And we get a bit more context about what Mama Murphy was talking about. Looks like Nick Valentine did something for skinny Malone. I'd been involving a quarry or something which meant that skinny Malone owed him one. And that's why he let us go. Or we could pass a charisma check to convince him that Darla is a problem. Look at yourself. Darla is playing you for a sap. You're better than this. You're better than her. No one tells skinny Malone how to run his affairs. I've had enough of this. Time for the hard goodbye. If we fail the attacks. But if we succeed. You're right. Things have gone nothing but south since she walked into my life. What are you talking about, skinny? I'm saying you're dragging me and this whole operation down a bad road. But we're through. So, fine then. I'm going back home. I don't need you. You fat ass. They always gotta hit you where it hurts. Now what am I gonna do about you two? I know. I'm gonna give you until a count of ten. I still see your ugly faces after that. I'm gonna start shooting until there ain't no more bullets left in this old vault. Better get out of here. Fast. One. In which case, he starts his countdown and everyone survives. Now we could, after going through all that trouble, turn back around and wait for him to finish counting to ten. If we do, they turn hostile. Now we gotta put him down. No matter how we choose to get through this situation, Nick Valentine leads us out of the vault. Back to the train tracks and then through the door that we found earlier, up the stairs and climbs up the ladder to back bay. Look at that commonwealth sky. Never thought anything so naturally ominous could end up looking so inviting. Thanks for getting me out. How did you know where to find me anyway? How many people knew where I went? I have my ways. Really? Well, I'm glad those ways included shooting down mobsters. Wasn't looking forward to haunting that place. It's not important. All right, wise guy, keep your secrets. Your secretary, Ellie, she sent me. She did. I should give her a raise. Just... what are you, Nick? You really don't know. I'm a synth. Synthetic man. All the parts. Minus a few red blood cells. I got built. I got old. I got tossed. Then I opened up that little agency in Diamond City and turns out people have plenty of problems to solve. Now, you mentioned something about your son, Sean, how he went missing. I want you to come to my office in Diamond City. Give me all the details. Besides, I think you've earned a chance to sit out and clear your head. You said Diamond City, right? Yeah, you know the way. South-West a few blocks. My office is in the back alleys with the neon heart sign out front. I don't have time to sit and chit chat. Look, I know you want your case solved as quickly as possible, but an investigation needs time. We can't risk overlooking the details. Meet me at Diamond City. Trust me. Things will be easier once I know everything that happened. At this point, we can either meet him there. I'll meet you there. See you in Diamond City. In which case, he walks off and we can carry about our business until we are ready to proceed. Or we can follow him. Lead the way, Nick. All right, let's move fast. Follow me. If we do, he takes us on a short tour of the ruins of Boston. And he has a few things to say along the way. Traveling in the Commonwealth as long as I have, you learn a few things. These old buildings and alleyways give you a lot of opportunities to hide if things get bad, but that goes both ways. Always keep your eyes out and your head on a swivel. Things can go from calm to deadly in a heartbeat. Diamond City is as close to safe as you can get in these parts. Security keeps the perimeter under control, but it's always a struggle. Despite the mayor's bragging, it really is the most secure settlement around. Even if it comes with a few uptight guards. But eventually, he leads us all the way back to Diamond City. At last, we can engage his help in finding Baby Sean. But sadly, I am all out of time. We'll have to pick up with the investigation in my next episode. I publish new episodes in this series each and every week on my channel. So if you don't want to miss the next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already, but just still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My shirt's come in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do when you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comments sections of my videos and access to ox emojis that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.