music In our last episode, we solved a crisis at Megaton. We discovered where the missing water shipments had gone to, and we ensured that the water was returned to Megaton. After making sure the residents of Megaton didn't steal water destined for Big Town, we can finally head to the Underworld to see if we can find this ghoul named Drifan. Our bigsly told us that he was selling aqua pura to Grifan. Selling free water? Why would Grifan be buying free water? Upon arriving at Underworld, we immediately see a bunch of signs around the entrance, all of them saying the amazing aqua cura, with arrows pointing inside. Selling inside, we see a brand new stage, and upon it, a ghoul with hair? Step right up, step right up, one and all, and purchase the amazing aqua cura. It's the answer to all your problems, guaranteed. Go on, tell us what it can do. Losing your hearing? Having trouble eavesdropping across the room? Scientific tests conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that rinsing out your ears each morning with aqua cura guarantees your hearing will come back. It's better than a fact. It's science. I'm definitely getting a bottle. The amazing aqua cura not only does it taste great, but it also reverses radiation poisoning. That's right, with each swig of pure aqua cura, your one step closer to being your old self again. I can't believe it does all that. That's wonderful. Have a dress from before the war that seemed better days? Pour a little aqua cura on it, scrub vigorously with a stiff brush, and get your party on. That's right, it removes stains as well as headaches. The amazing aqua cura. Oh, that is amazing. Have you tried the amazing aqua cura? All your friends and neighbors have? And in what? They are already enjoying the many benefits that aqua cura brings. Act in the next five minutes and new customers will get an extra bottle for free. What are you waiting for? I'm getting a case for my family. The people call you clumsy. The things just seem to slip out of your hands. You could be suffering from a common ailment, one of the many cured by the amazing aqua cura. Drink aqua cura with every meal and wash your hands and feet ten times a day with soapy aqua cura. And soon you'll be doing magic tricks and juggling knives. Guaranteed. I'm getting a case for my family. Have a trouble sleeping, still haunted by the war. Watch your mind at rest. Eat a pack of aqua cura before bedtime and sail away on sweet dreams of a brighter future. The amazing aqua cura. It's like a vacation in a bottle. Guaranteed. It's unbelievable. Have it, oozing sore that just won't go away. Take a clean bandage, soak it in aqua cura, wrap it around your wound and see your skin restore itself in just minutes. Guaranteed. I'm definitely getting a bottle. Have cap strapped friends or relatives no need to fret. Simply sign up for our friends and family referral program and get deep discounts on both orders of the amazing aqua cura. What are you waiting for? Sign up today. It's unbelievable. Having trouble seeing? Got a little something in your eye? Rinse it out with the amazing aqua cura and you'll instantly see why it's the only product you'll ever need again. That's terrific. Muscles atraveying, getting picked on by bullies. Well feared a dark alleys no longer friends. Drink aqua cura regularly and put even grog knack to shame. Men will fear you. Women will love you. Guaranteed. I'm definitely getting a bottle. The amazing aqua cura cura is all the common ghoul ailments. Guaranteed. Oh wow. That sounds great. Are you plagued by Helacius Hallitosis? Extreme epidermal exfoliation? Well friends, your days of suffering are ended. Try the amazing aqua cura. Guaranteed to have you feeling better in seven days or less or your money back. Oh. Wondering how it works? It's simple. Just drink one bottle with every meal and you'll start seeing the positive effects then very next day. It's that easy. The amazing aqua cura. Get yours now while supplies last. That's terrific. Extreme epidermal exfoliation. It's something we all face. Or rather, we all had to face in the past. Now with the amazing aqua cura, your days of droopy skin and gaping sores are over. Wash profusely with aqua cura, morning and evening. Or better yet, buy a 10 gallon barrel and take a bath in it. And you'll see your skin return to its natural smooth state. It's guaranteed. Oh wow. That sounds great. Have a woman who keeps looking the other way? Just lip a little aqua cura in her drink. Be the next man she lays eyes on and she'll be sure to fall in love with you. Just be sure you really want to spend the rest of your life with her because she'll be yours forever. Care and tea. Who would have thought? Friends, have you stopped combing your hair? Afraid of pulling out the few remaining plugs? Little fear no longer. Cast your gaze upon my luxurious, quaffure. And now you too can get your hair back with the amazing aqua cura. Guaranteed or your bottle caps back. That's terrific. Having trouble concentrating? Tired of drawing mouths and other side effects of endats? Then try the amazing aqua cura. Things have proven that 10 out of 10 drinkers of aqua cura do 50% better on all standardized tests. It's a scientific fact. Wow. Come on, come on. Taste the smooth succulent sensation of a radiation reversing aqua cura. It's simply amazing. More. We want to hear more. But I think we are done talking to the guy. Well, hello there, smooth skin. Step right up. Have you come to save the great taste of the amazing aqua cura? Is that any different from regular aqua pura? Why? Have you heard otherwise? Well, no. I mean, you just changed the name or did you do something to it? I changed the name to help ghouls realize it's amazing properties. And well, just between us. I've also added a few secret ingredients to enhance the flavor of the original. So it's not exactly the same. It's better. But you can get aqua pura for free. Why pay for yours? The brotherhood doesn't deliver the underworld, you know. There's shipping expenses and all that. Not to mention sneaking past super mutants. But beyond that, I added a few of my own secret ingredients to enhance the flavor of the original. I couldn't help but notice that you've got a nice head of hair for a ghoul, I mean. Haha, that's right my dear. The amazing aqua cura will rescue, restore and regrow your hair back from premature balding. At now and I'll throw in a box of a braxo for, wait for it. Free! Mix those together and you'll have the best shampoo known domain, kind. Tell you what, I'll trade you a piece of blue sky for a bottle. Haha, haha. Tell you what friend. I'll give you a bottle for you and only if you act in the next five minutes, I'll sell you a bottle for half price. What do you say? You want to broke your bottle? We can try to pass a difficult speech check to say, got a free sample I could try? Oh I'm sorry, I'm fresh out of free samples. Try again tomorrow. But if we succeed. A free sample you say? Hmm, well I normally don't do this but for you, for this one time only, I'm sure you are a very special VIP promotional offer. Ladies and gentlemen, ding ding ding, we have a new winner in our daily aquacura sweepstakes. Here you go ma'am, your free bottle. Step right up in the next five minutes and get your very own bottle of the amazing aquacura at half price. Ladies and gentlemen, half price. Or if we can't pass the speech check, we can say, how much are you selling them for? No friend, how much would you be willing to pay for such an amazing product as the amazing aquacura? Many would pay 50, 75, even 100 bottle caps for such an amazing product with such an amazing guarantee. But for a limited time only, I am able to offer the amazing aquacura for an introductory exceptionally low price. Can I take a guess at how much? Uh, do I really have to guess? Oh yes, you can't imagine how low the special introductory price is. Go on, just guess, you'll never believe it. Oh I don't know, 40 caps. No ma'am, try again, lower. 30 caps? Wrong, try again, lower still. 20 caps? Nope, it's insane isn't it? How could I sell it for any less, but I can. And I will try again, lower. Now tell me, 10 caps? Ding ding ding, we have a winner ladies and gentlemen. That's right, for the low low price of just 10 caps, you can walk away with your very own bottle of the amazing aquacura. Or instead of guessing we can say, I'm done playing your guessing game. Fine, you're blocking all the real customers anyway, come on, get out of here. Look, just tell me the price, where I'm leaving. Ah, you know fun, 10 caps, pretty amazing huh, you want a bottle? Yeah, I think I'll pass, digs anyway. Oh really, I'm sure you'll change your mind after you discover how amazing the product really is, stick around, I give regular demonstrations. Well if I had 10 caps, I might buy a bottle. Oh, I didn't realize you were so poor. Well tough break kid, maybe you can find someone who can spot you the caps. If you'll excuse me, I have real customers waiting. Here's the 10 caps, I'll take a bottle. Here you go, another satisfied customer I'm sure. No matter how we got the bottle of aquacura, we can examine it in our inventory. It looks identical to aquacura, but the stats are very different. Aquacura has the same stats as purified water, plus 20 to HP, but the aquacura only gives us plus 10 to HP while dosing us with radiation. Those are the same effects as dirty water. Aquacura my butt. I hope there's nothing wrong with your aquacura, remember? All sales are final. Um now how can I help you, dear returning customer of mine? I'm curious Griffin, where'd you get all this aquacura? Really? What's it matter to you anyway? Oh just making conversation, I really don't care where you got the stuff. Oh, sorry, I guess I'm just a little sensitive about the question. Some people think giving aquacura to ghouls is a waste after all. I didn't steal it if that's what you're getting at. I got it fair and square. I'd have thought giving aquacura to a ghoul would seem like a waste. Huh, I hadn't pegged you as a bigot. My mistake. Or we can pass a speech check to say, I'm not interested in making trouble, I'm just curious about where you got the water. Alright, but keep your mouth shut about it. The brotherhood's happy just giving us stuff away right? They drove me out claiming ghouls don't need fresh water. Well, big surprise that when I offered the pay for it, next thing I knew, I was talking to describe Bigsley, the guy in charge at a whole shabang. I didn't really want to, but on principle, I wanted to prove that ghouls are worth the cost so I paid him. Now I'm stuck selling this stuff. Good thing whatever they put in it to kill the radiation, also when does the radiation damage to ghoul physiology. Thus aquacura becomes aquacura. Uh huh, you know, Pipboy Analysis shows that your aquacura is irradiated. Interesting. Ah, why? That duhicchi on your wrist says the water's irradiated? That's a pretty fancy divisive, it can know something like that. But clearly it's misinformed. You should get that fixed because it's definitely giving you false information. There's nothing wrong with my Pipboy. You sir are a liar. Ah, I'd like to see you try and prove that. Um, rather than even if it weren't true, you need to get proof to convince my customers, my very loyal customers. They're already convinced, I mean, they already see the many benefits of the amazing aquacura. Or we can try to pass a difficult speech check to say you're clearly up to something, there's no denying it. Talk. Now. You know, kid, you really ought to have proof before you go around insulting people like that. Now, if you don't mind, why don't you take your baseless accusations elsewhere? I have important business to conduct. But if we pass the speech check? Oh, alright, alright. But if you start blabbing, I've got some buddies with itching trigger fingers. So I've got this little operation taking aquacura and replacing it with regular crap. It's not like it'll hurt us, ghouls. The aquacura I'm storing the cell back to humans later. You know, radars, outcasts, etc. The guy's the brotherhood doesn't share with. I'm not a bad guy, I'm just trying to help. The brotherhood needs me. My caps mean water for the wasteland. Just ask Bigsley in Project Purity. Or we can get the same information by passing a karma check. Relax, I don't care. Take these morons for all their worth. I'm just curious. And if we have good or neutral karma, eh-heh, you're not fooling anyone. Everyone knows you're one of the good guys. But seriously, kid, I'm not up to anything. Just ask any of these fools. I mean, loyal customers. They already see the many benefits of the amazing aquacura. But if we have evil karma, it's true I got a thing going. I take the aquacura, store it to sell to humans later. Then I put the regular radiated crap in the bottles and sell it to these fools. No one's getting hurt. In fact, the brotherhood actually needs the caps and technology I give them to fund their free water carer pains. Just ask Bigsley at Project Purity. He'll tell you how grateful he is. I'm helping them out like this. But watch yourself. Get in my way and let's just say I'm good at removing problems. No matter how we got the information, we next find an option to say, care to tell me where this water operation of yours is located? No, not really. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have customers that need my attention. Hmm, and he doesn't want to tell us. He goes back to his performance. But you know, the water that he's buying from Skrabe Bigsley must be delivered somewhere, which means that it's likely Bigsley knows where his operation's at. So heading back to the Jefferson Memorial, we can head into the gift shop to talk to Bigsley. Yes? Griffin's up to something with the Aqua Pure. What do you know about it? Not that it's really any of your business, but we have an arrangement. He buys water. I send him some. I use the caps and techie pays me to fund the other water deliveries. I send my men with the water to the museum authority on the mall. Griffin sends the payment back with my men so far so good. Lions wouldn't approve, but I don't really care anymore. I need the resources, and there's certainly plenty of water to go around. The museum authority in the mall. Well, that's right next to the underworld. We can find the museum authority by leaving the underworld and then heading west towards the Washington Monument. When traveling around its southwestern side, we can continue west until we find an office building on the southern side of the reflecting pool. Here we find a bunch of rad roaches, and as we exterminate them, we discover the museum authority building. Heading up the stairs, we can open the door to the museum authority. As soon as we enter, we get attacked by ghouls. He attacked us from some sort of cubicle room, but before exploring, let's turn around and explore the bathrooms. In the women's restroom, we find a nukukola quantum, in a water tank, in one of the stalls, and a skeleton lying on the ground in another one. The stall without a door has a booby-trapped toilet. Apparently drinking dirty water in a toilet bowl is a common thing in the wasteland, we can disarm it and take the microfusion cells. Heading out and going west down the hallway, we see a staircase that's been filled in with rubble. This leaves the two doors going north into the big cubicle room. We can explore each of these cubicles for loot. We walk away with a tidy store of scrap and cash. In one of the cubicles, we find the museum authority workstation. Museum Authority workstation 7 Dallas Brice. The log entries go from 84 to 89, we'll start with 89. Remings over at the Museum of Technology is complaining again about the planetarium system out functioning. I have replaced the playback unit on that thing three times now. Seems like the system keeps crashing and trying to restart itself, then crashes again. Keeps repeating that cycle until it's completely rebooted. I suggest that we acquire a new type of system in next year's budget. The cost of replacing it now and fitting a new system is cheaper than the amount we've spent shoving in replacement parts. We are familiar with this planetarium. I covered it in my video on the Museum of Technology that you can watch here. We see that 88 and 87 are corrupted. We can't read them. So moving to 86, Brandstag over at the National Archives is requesting a new brain software package for their TGF02 Thomas Jefferson Protectron. The original software was wiped and replaced with a radio uplink and frequency scanning software package which is simply receiving and broadcasting local radio stations. I suggest we encrypt the next brain package so this type of software purchase is not necessary. We encountered the very robot he's talking about here in my video on Stealing Independence which you can watch here. At the time we wondered why this robot instead of talking was just spouting galaxy news radio. Well, now we know why. In the next 185, we've logged a fourth request from Dr. Gillian Taylor over at the National Aquarium regarding a new tank she wishes to be constructed for her whale exhibition. I've already spoken to Director Barnocky and he maintains that a new exhibit is out of the question and the current one is becoming far too expensive to maintain. Director Barnocky has already spoken to the San Francisco Aquarium and they have agreed to begin construction of an appropriately sized tank and viewing area for Dr. Taylor's whales. He also negotiated with that facility to have Dr. Taylor transferred and I support this decision. Haha, sounds like no love lost there. This is a reference to the plot of the 1986 movie Star Trek for the Voyage Home. Not only does that movie have a character named Dr. Gillian Taylor but the plot is all about the difficulty in constructing a very large whale tank to bring whales from the past to the future. Addict took place in San Francisco and sadly the final one has a corrupted log file. While looting the other cubicles, we attract the attention of more cool guards from the northwest. After they're dead we can go through a door to the east. This looks like it was reception before the war but the front door has all been boarded up. There's not much here so going back into the cubicle room we can open a door to the north where those ghouls came from here we find more bathrooms, nothing in the men's bathroom to the east and moving west we can tip toe over chunks of ghoul to go down a western staircase. On the next level down we find a staircase going down to the east and a hallway moving east. If we go down the hallway we enter a large room with a floor that's crumbling into the room below. Here we find a number of containers filing cabinets and desks. We can make great use of the scrounger perk here and then on the southern side we can head through a door to a big ruined room with more containers some of which are about to fall into the room below. Peering through a hole into the room below we see big barrels of aqua pura. I think we found it but instead of dropping down we'll go back west down the hallway and then turn the corner to take the stairs. I don't want to miss anything. This leads us into a small office that opens up through a southern door into the basement. Before the war this must have been some sort of storage room we see lots of red barriers for making lines to queue into, shelves, lanterns, symmetrical equipment, microscopes and other minor scrap. There's a bunch of exhibit display placard stands organized against a wall here and on a shelf next to them we find a teddy bear in a box. We can snag that for a little Marie. On the other side of these shelves we find the barrels of aqua pura. Only these have been labeled aqua pura. Sounds like Riffin really does try to sell entire barrels of the stuff. We find bottles on a table, bottles on a counter and a whole bunch of a braxocleaner, mentats and nukakola. There's a bathtub here with more of a braxocleaner and that sugar bombs and whiskey on a shelf above the bath tubs are these the special ingredients he added to aqua pura. On a round table between the tubs we find a nukakola and a holotape, Griffins bottling instructions. This is a Griffin recording. Are you clowns listening up? I'm leaving you in charge of the bottling operation while I'm away doing my thing at underworld. Here are my instructions. First off, shoot anyone who isn't me or one of you. Don't want anyone nosing around inside. When big sleaze men arrive from project purity, pay them promptly. But don't let them in. Take the aqua pura, dump it into tubs and sink to hold for later, then fill the empty bottles with the treated irradiated water. When you get enough bottles to make it worthwhile, make a trip over to underworld. I'll take the new bottles and give you your cut. Oh, and leave the wigs alone. I don't want your greasy heads touching them. I mean it. So wait a minute, there's no aqua pura at all. In his aqua cura, they were dumping the aqua pura in these tubs to sell to raiders and slavers and filling the bottles with his own treated irradiated water. Looks like he treated it with what a braxo cleaner, sugar bombs, whatever he treats it with, it doesn't cure radiation or the nature of ghouls. Our man Griffin is a liar. We find another copy of Griffin's bottling instructions on the corpses of one of these ghouls and a wig. So, looks like these ghouls couldn't help themselves, they just had to wear one of Griffin's wigs. And next to a bunch of mannequins, we find a cabinet filled with all sorts of pre-war clothing and a bunch more wigs. There's enough here for every single companion we have, and enough to keep Griffin in business for quite some time. The wig isn't terribly special, it has a DR of 1 and it weighs only 1 pound, but it's unique. It's exactly like Griffin's wig. It has brown hair and a simple men's style haircut. Perfect for your run of the mill soap box shister. Don't know if it makes the lone wanderer more intimidating. I don't know what you guys think, think it suits my character? Maybe we'll keep it for a while. Now that we have evidence that Griffin plans to sell the aquapura to slavers and raiders, we can head back to Bigselay to see what he has to say about it. There isn't someone else you could bother. Did you know Griffin's stashing the aquapura and selling irradiated water? I guess he's more clever than I thought. He's probably planning on selling the real aquapura to raiders and slavers. Now there's a thought. Of course, compliance would add my head if I tried anything of the sword. And Bigselay doesn't seem to care. Okay. I suppose I should have expected that. Well we care, gosh darn it. So head back to Underworld, we can confront Griffin. Welcome back. What can I do for you? Griffin, who does your hair? It looks rather similar to mine, doesn't it? Yeah, look at that. We practically have the same haircut. What are the chances of that? I've seen your bottling operation. The jig is up. My what now? My bottling operation. Oh, you mean where I add my secret ingredient to the aquapura? That's not aquapura. If you want my silence, you'll have to buy it. Why you brought a... Fine. If you're promised to keep your mouth shut, I'll cut you in. Me and my boys continue to do our thing. You come and check on us once in a while and I'll cut you in for your share. Each week you make it by, I'll give you 20% of the previous week's profits. That's more than fair for doing nothing. I'm doing all the hard work. Forget all that. Just give me 300 caps this once and we'll call it even. Huh. That's pretty steep. What the hell? It's just this once and then we're through. Fine, here's your 300 caps. There. I just bought just silence. So keep your mouth shut. With that, he gives us 300 caps and goes about his business. If we try to talk with him again, I believe our business is concluded, friend. See here, folks? Another happy customer. A great day to you, two ma'am. Thank you for stopping by. And that concludes our interaction with Griffin. Or we can say fine. 2080 in your favor, but if you stiff me, you'll regret it. Fine. 2080 it is. But only the profits. I still have to recoup my initial investment. You come back once a week and I'll give you a share. Strangely enough, however, we don't have to wait a week. Oh, I hadn't seen you in so long. I thought you died. I stopped setting the side money for you. Here, take this. It's all I have to spare. Look it out of here before my customers take notice. And we get 160 bottle caps. But if we try again, I don't have your money yet. Once a week, remember, come back in a few days. We really do have to wait a week. Or we can try to pass a difficult speech check to say, we split the profits 5050. Or this will end badly for you. Fine. 5050 it is. And he has the exact same dialogue as the 2080 dialogue path. The only difference is by choosing the 5050 dialogue path, we walk away with 400 caps instead of 160. Or instead of blackmailing him, we can say, either you tell them or I tell them your call. I can't believe it. I have a good thing going here. Why messed that up for me? What have I done to you? I'm not hurting anyone. I mean, really, reverse the goal condition. With a bottle of water. I wasn't fooling anybody. They were fooling themselves. Fine. I've made enough money here anyway. Well, it's probably best if I tell them. I think I know what to say. Wish me luck. And he turns to his customers. Ah, my loyal customers and friends, it appears I may have slightly exaggerated some of the benefits of the amazing aquacura. He turns out into a bottling irregularity, rather than actual aquacura. You've all been purchasing regular on Purified Iradiated Water. Yeah, but we're cool. So it's not like it's heard anybody. He's been lie to us. Ooh. Now, before you all get upset, it's a little late of late. Something out to you folks that you might be overlooking in your current state of rage. You've all seen an actual improvement in your lives. Granted, it's not due to any inherent material property of the water. Nice. Do you believe in the transmuting power of the amazing aquacura you have all experienced, renewed hope? He's made fools of us. I trust you will remain grateful. I want an aquacura. Really? And as I've said, with each and every purchase, all sales are final. I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, the violence won't be necessary. Kill him. Kill the life to face bastard. Hey, fire. With that, all of the ghouls charge him with knives drawn and try to kill him. People's out of Chinese pistols are trying to defend himself, and they chase him all over the underworld. Oh, no. Oh. Oh. Now, eventually they get him. And enough are it. He ain't that easy, like that. Did I hit him? He'd you to mess with me. And on his body, we find 600 caps. After killing him, the murderers continue to walk around this area. Can't suck at anyone else now. Can he? He got exactly what he deserved. If we kill him, or if we allow him to die, and we return to Bigsley, we can say I thought you'd like to know Griffin's dead. He's dead? Great. Yeah. I guess I'll just have to find some other way to subsidize the water caravans. Have a nice day. Where is the nighttime? I can't tell. I think they put me in an office without windows on purpose. If we try to intervene on Griffin's behalf and kill the underworld residents, we succeed in turning underworld hostile, but even if we save Griffin, he has nothing else to say to us. Or we can say, look, I won't expose your lies, but only if you start selling real aquapura. That's seriously going to cut into my profits. But perhaps you're right. After all, it's not like he was going to be a piece of cake selling the aquapura to raiders and slavers. They're a nasty bunch. Fine, I'll sell them the real deal. But I'll keep the amazing aquacura pattern. It gives this sorry lot a little hope for the future. I hope no one notices the switcheroo. And who knows? Maybe it really will be a miraculous cure. Come back in a few days. We'll see if anyone notices. And with that, he turns around and goes back to his spiel. If we wait a few days as he suggested, or even if we wait weeks and months, then return nothing has changed. He still stands here selling aquacura, and the bottles of aquacura next to a stand are still irradiated. Even though nothing physically changes here, I think we're supposed to believe that if we choose this option, he really does sell true aquapura to the ghouls, which makes it impossible for him to sell to raiders and slavers. If we choose this option, Bigsley has no further dialogue for us concerning this quest. As far as he is concerned, things continue on as normal. Before we leave the underworld, we can give it a once over after all it's been a few weeks since we've been here. Underworld appears to be the same until we head inside the chop shop. If we do having infected project purity with Modified FEV, we see that Doc Barro's clinic is full of sick ghouls and there's puddles of blood on the floor. Aaaaah! Gah! Gah! Gah! Gah! Gah! Gah! Talking with Doc Barro's... What do you need? Full house today, Doc. What's wrong with everybody? I don't know yet. Some kind of virus that attacks the body on a cellular level. I've never seen anything like it. It's strange, because ghouls are immune to almost any known disease. A little does he know that they're all suffering from modified FV. Eh, breathe! Right, my chest... ...ahem... ...ahem... But of course if we don't infect the water, then we find Doc Barrow's chop shop just the way we left it. With that we achieve all of Scribe Bigsley's tasks. We make his miserable existence just a little bit more bearable. And hopefully having done so, more people in the wasteland will be able to enjoy free aqua pura. We could head to the Rockland Cart tunnel to meet up with Paladin Tristan, or we could explore around a bit to see if anything else has changed in the wasteland. In particular, how are some of the other communities in the capital wasteland responding to the defeat of the enclave and the success of Project Purity? We'll continue our exploration in our next episode. I publish many videos each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss the next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. And at last, I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. No dice! That's right, it's the most precious object in the wasteland. And the one I've been trying to get ever since I started playing! A perfectly preserved pie! Now you too can celebrate the difficulty in getting a perfectly preserved slice of pie with this brand new t-shirt. This new design comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wider ray of colors. You can find it on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon, or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.