In our last episode, we finally confronted Benny at the Topps Casino. That confrontation went one of two ways. We either successfully retrieved the Platinum Chip from Benny's corpse or Benny escaped, taking the Platinum Chip with him. This also proves to be a major branching point in the plot of the game, where we can choose to side with one of the four factions. Starting with this video, we will choose one of the factions and follow its storyline to the very end. We'll start by siding with House. If we retrieved the Platinum Chip from Benny, we can do our duty to the man who hired us and head back into the Lucky 38 to deliver the chip. So Benny has been handled and you've recovered the Platinum Chip. Let's have it. I'm not going to give you that chip. Hmm. How shall I put this? Delivery of the Platinum Chip is non-negotiable. I invite you to think carefully about what you do next, standing alone before me, surrounded by my heavily armed, secure and strong guards. Attack me and you risk destroying that chip. By the time I was 30 years old, I was a billionaire 30 times over. I founded and ran a vast economic empire. Do you really think I'm going to let an upstart come into my home and ransom my property to me? I spent two centuries searching for the Platinum Chip. It's my invention, my property, mine! Now be a good choreographer and deliver it. I'm not afraid of you Mr. House. The Platinum Chip belongs to me. You needn't be afraid of me. It's my secure trance that are going to kill you. With that, the secure trance and the penthouse become hostile. After destroying the secure trance, we must now track down Mr. House to put an end to him. But instead of prodding him into violence, we can say, I have some questions to ask first. I'll be happy to satisfy your every curiosity once the Platinum Chip has been delivered. Well out so fast Mr. House, we need to discuss payment. Fine, give me the chip and I'll pay you four times the delivery bonus stipulated in your contract. How's that? We can pass a barter check of 50 to say, oh it's a great start but well below market price. Very well, five times your delivery bonus, not one cap more. The last option puts us back into that hostile altercation so to move forward we can say, 1250 caps it is and we can hand over the Platinum Chip. Such a small thing isn't it? And yet so capacious, so very dear. Decades of hiring salvagers out west to search for this little relic in the ruins of a place called Sunnyvale. Back there anyway, that's where the chip was printed on October 22nd, 2077. It was to have been hand delivered to me here at the lucky 38 the next day. But the bombs fell first. Suffice it to say the delivery was never made. Right, well I'll be on my way then. I must insist that you stay long enough for me to show you that the Platinum Chip does more than change the pictures on the secure trance face screens. Events of great import are about to unfold with you taking a central role. You get started, all you need to do is take the elevator all the way down. Don't worry, you'll like what you see. We have much to accomplish you and I. With that we take the elevator to the basement. Step closer to the demonstration area if you would. I expect your will familiar with my secure trance by now. The titanium alloy housing that protects its electronic core deflects small arms and track no easily enough. Its X-25 Gatling laser produced to spec by glassing housing is deadly against soft targets at medium range. And for close range suppression or crowd control, the secure trance is armed with a 9mm submachine gun. All of this you probably already knew. What you did not know is that these are the secure trance secondary weapons. All this time my secure trance have had to get by running the Mark I operating system which lacks software drivers for their primary weapons. Today with the delivery of the Platinum Chip all van changes. Behold for the first time secure trance running the Mark II OS. The M-235 missile launcher gives the secure trance the ability to engage around the air targets at significantly longer ranges. And a rapid fire G-28 grenade launcher ensures the secure trance is deadly in close range engagements. The software upgrade also includes drivers for the secure trance highly sophisticated onboard auto repair systems. All together the Mark II software upgrade confers a 235% increase in combat effectiveness per unit. The city of New Vegas finally has soldiers worthy of protecting it. Return to the penthouse now. We have much to discuss. Heading back to the elevator. Trace to the basement are rarely so educational don't you think? I've since broadcast the upgrade to every secure trance in range of my transmitters. And I must say it's causing quite a stir down the strip. Why show your hand like that? Now your enemies know what you're up to. I'm surprised you can still underestimate me after everything you've seen. I haven't shown my hand. I've shown one card. I've given my enemies a single provocative datum upon which to fixate. They have no idea what other cards I'm holding. It's a strong hand believe me. I dealt it to myself. You think your secure trance can defeat Caesar's Legion and the NCR? Why would I want to go to war against the NCR? They're my best customers. If their leaders weren't scheming to steal Vegas out from under me I'd have no troubles with the NCR at all. Well I'll be on my way Mr. House. No no no. You'll want to hear this out. Okay then what happens next? To secure the future of New Vegas I must have your assistance. The work ahead is dangerous but you weather danger well. Look the chip's been delivered. We're through. Do you have any idea how prestigious is the opportunity you're casting aside here? No thanks Mr. House. I'll give you time to think over the consequences of what you're saying. I urge you to reconsider. If we choose this option we can come back at any time to pick up right where we left off. Have you found the courage to do what's necessary? Alright Mr. House I'm interested but let me ask some questions first. What did you want to discuss? I'm surprised you haven't asked what became of Benny. That's because he ceased to be relevant when you recovered the platinum chip. Revenge doesn't interest me. Progress does. Sorry to deny you a moment of primate triumph. But you'll have to go elsewhere to sound your bomb Barraki Yolte. What else did you want to discuss? How will the NCR defend Hoover Dam? General Oliver's strategy or tunnel vision as I like to call it has been to mass troops at Hoover Dam. He wants to outfike the Legion in a straightforward slugging match and then when they route pursue and destroy them in detail. A crushing decisive victory of this sort would overshadow the tactical ingenuity of Chief Hanlon's defense four years ago you see. He's referring here to Chief Hanlon, the leader of the NCR Rangers and a veteran of the first battle at Hoover Dam. It was Chief Hanlon's strategy that won the NCR the day that fooled the Legion to charge into Boulder City where they met their demise. However after the battle Chief Hanlon got all of the glory. Well Oliver didn't get the glory he felt he deserved and so ever since then he's been spiting Chief Hanlon, making rash and foolish decisions that cost more NCR lives just so that he can say I defeated the Legion this time. What's your battle plan for the dam? A good deal should be obvious to you by now. I won't spoil the rest by talking out of turn. What are your plans for new Vegas? I've resurrected Vegas, spirit intact. What I need now is the ability to enforce my rightful claim. Not just against Caesar's Legion by the way. In fact, the NCR is a more present and insidious threat. How do you intend to enforce your claim on the city? To enforce one must have force, a position of strength. Years ago when I detected NCR scouts roaming the Mojave I could tell from their uniforms that these were no mere tribesmen. I knew it was only a matter of time before an army appeared to take control of the dam and I knew my secure trance wouldn't be enough to oppose them. And so I recruited the three families. Vegas belongs to me because I mustered enough strength to bring the NCR to the bargaining table. I'm surprised they even signed the treaty. Wasn't the NCR army big enough to defeat both your secure trance and the three families? Indeed it was and still is, but not without taking significant casualties. Would Kimball and Oliver have traded the lives of hundreds of soldiers for absolute control of Hoover Dam? Oh yes. They weren't afraid of me. They were afraid of Caesar that attacking me would leave them vulnerable to a Legion offensive. And so they negotiated not out of the kindness of their hearts as they tried to make it seem because the calculus of power left no other choice. What were the terms of your treaty with the NCR? NCR forces were permitted to occupy Hoover Dam and establish a military base at Macarron Airport. Well, it used to be one. They recognized my sovereignty over the Vegas strip and agreed to supply electricity and water once their engineers repaired the dam. Written into the treaty were provisions that the NCR do nothing to prevent its soldiers and civilians from visiting the strip. That's how I harness the NCR to my endeavor. Their occupation has been the engine of my growing economy. You would go to war against the NCR? The salient issue is that they will go to war with me if given the chance. There's just one reason why the NCR hasn't contrived some outrage to justify invading the strip. Caesar's Legion. The final battle between those two armies is fast approaching. I can't afford to let either side win on their terms. What else did you want to discuss? Where does New Vegas get all of its electricity? Hoover Dam, of course. A hydroelectric dam. The NCR had it up and running at 50% capacity within a year of occupying the dam. By treaty, New Vegas receives 5% of its output. More than enough. What else did you want to discuss? Can you tell me what Vegas was like before the war? It was a place of splendor. As magnificent as today's strip may seem, it's but a shadow of the neon paradise that was Las Vegas. I grew up not far from here and though I traveled the old world extensively, I never found another place like it. You say you saved Las Vegas, but how? By 2065, I deemed it a mathematical certainty that an atomic war would devastate the earth within 15 years. Every projection I ran confirmed it. I knew I couldn't save the world, nor did I care to, but I could save Vegas. And in the process, perhaps save mankind. I set to work immediately. I thought I had plenty of time to prepare. As it turned out, I was 20 hours short. What preparations did you make to save Las Vegas? On the day of the Great War, 77 atomic warheads targeted Las Vegas and its surrounding areas, my networked mainframes were able to predict and force transmit disarm code subsets to 59 warheads, neutralizing them before impact. Laser cannons mounted on the roof of the Lucky 38 destroyed another 9 warheads. The rest got through, though none hit the city itself. A subtle optimal performance admittedly. If only the Platinum Chip had arrived a day sooner. Why didn't the Platinum Chip arrive on time? The Platinum Chip was printed in Sunnyvale, California on October 22nd, 2077, the day before the Great War. It was to have been delivered by courier the following afternoon. But by then, the world had ended. The chip contained vital software upgrades, but not just for my security trunks. Every aspect of the missile defense grid would have been upgraded too. Given that I had to make do with buggy software, the outcome could have been worse. I nearly died as it was. How did you nearly die defending Vegas? Software glitches that offer cascades of system crashes. I had to take the Lucky 38's reactor offline, lest it melt down. For nearly five years I battled power outages and more system crashes until I finally managed to reboot my data core with an older version of the OS. I spent the next few decades in a veritable coma, but I survived, obviously, and eventually thrived. Alright, House, let's talk about that mission after all. The next step will require you to infiltrate Caesar's camp at Fortification Hill. You want me to kill Caesar? Absolutely not. Caesar is a great use to me. I don't want you harming a hair on that man's head, assuming you could find one. What does this mean that Caesar's bald? I guess this means Caesar's bald. Well, we'll find out soon enough. So what do you want me to do at Fortification Hill? I want you to open a hatch in the basement of the derelict weather station atop Fortification Hill. You'll recognize it on sight. The hatch bears the logo of the Lucky 38, same as the platinum chip. How do I open the hatch? You can't, but the chip can. The hatch will recognize the platinum chip and open sesame. What's inside the hatch? Something very important. I wouldn't want to spoil the surprise, so don't bother asking. What's my stake in this? I'm not offering you an incentive as crude as money, though there'll be plenty of that. What I'm offering you is a ground floor opportunity in the most important enterprise on earth. What I'm offering is a future. And for what remains of the human race. All right, I'll do as you ask. Here, take the platinum chip again. You will need it. Upon arrival of the fort, it's likely that you'll be searched and the chip taken from you. Don't worry, it will come back to you. So if we return the platinum chip to house, he sends us to the Legion headquarters at Fortification Hill. But if we allow Benny to escape with the chip and then return to house... The events have transpired in a less than optimal fashion. Benny has fled the strip and the platinum chip has not been recovered. Not interested. Good luck getting that chip back. As I've told you before, you are contractually obligated to deliver the chip. Do your job. You have everything to gain. Where do you think Benny is gone? His destination is hardly a mystery. It's a near certainty that he's making his way for Caesar's can. At Fortification Hill. It's one of just two places on Earth that have the hardware necessary to lead the platinum chip. The Lucky 38 is the other, of course. What do I do next? I won't lie to you. It'll be dangerous. The next step will require you to infiltrate Caesar's camp at Fortification Hill. I think that sounds insane. Not if you've been invited. You realize that you've made quite a splash here in New Vegas. I could predict with a high degree of confidence that you'll receive an official summons from Caesar if you haven't already, that is. What about Benny? What about him? He has every reason to go to the Fort, so that's where you'll find him. All I ask is that you recover the chip. What happens to Benny is up to you. Caesar has already invited me to the Fort. I'm not surprised. The Legion has spies on the strip. All right, I'll head that way. I expect that if Benny doesn't have the chip, Caesar will make sure you get it. More on that later. Be off. So no matter what outcome we choose after confronting Benny, how sends us to the Fort to meet with Caesar. Heading to Cottonwood Cove, you'll notice that the town is completely empty. Because I cleared it and killed all the Legionaries here, freeing the slaves in my video on Cottonwood Cove. Which you can watch here. But even if we've cleared Cottonwood Cove, we can walk down a long dock where we find a man, named Cursor Lucullus, standing on a raft. Awe, are you ready to head up, River? Who are you? I am Cursor Lucullus, and my orders are to escort you to the Legion's camp at Fortification Hill. Are you ready to go? What'll happen at the Fort? You'll be meeting face to face with the mighty Caesar himself. Founder of the Legion, conquer of 86 tribes. To my knowledge, this is the first time Caesar is ever summoned one of the desolute to see him. That it would be a woman that's even more surprising. Who are you calling desolute? All who are not Legion are desolute. They live in squalor, unrestrained by morality, lacking moderation, temper, and self control. Their very existence is a blight on the common good, even worse are the profligates. The subtype of desolute one finds this side of the river. They hold themselves to be civilized, when in fact they are corrupt and self-interested. The truth will be made clear to them soon enough. What have I done to earn this honor? You'd know better than I would, but you must be remarkable for Caesar to take such an interest. Why are you surprised to see a woman receive this honor? Women are physically and intellectually inferior to men. The role is to bear children and ensure the survival of our species. Not to say that all women are equally incapable. I trust Caesar will find a worthy use for you. She's listening to this guy. Is that official Legion policy? But then we remember talking with Cass in my profile video on her, which you can watch here, even when admitting that the Legion was really good at protecting the roads, making Legion territory ideal for traveling caravans. One of the reasons she supported the NCR was due to the way the Legion treats women. I'm ready to travel with you. The trip will take a few hours. Take your place on the boat. The screen fades to black. We hear the water sloshing beneath the raft. And after a few hours' journey, we arrive on the other side of the river. By order of Caesar, all visitors must disarm and relinquish all banned items. Why can't I just continue on? Caesar strictly forbids the use of Kim's and alcohol. By his order, all visitors must also relinquish their arms upon entry. If you come in peace, then there is no reason to not disarm. You will not be harmed unless Kaiser wills it. What's considered a banned item? Alcohol and all Kim's, including stems and other addictive items. Alcohol and all Kim's? Well these guys aren't any fun. We can pass a speech check of 35 to say, oh you know, I've got to bring my Kim's long because I have a congenital heart defect. I know not why Kaiser would wish to speak with such a physically inferior willp. But I will allow this one exception. You may bear Kaiser's mark. But do not attempt to share any of your medicine with anyone in the fort. We can then hand over our weapons or hand over our weapons but keep our hold out weapons. Your belongings will be returned to you when you leave. And with that, we have arrived at the fort. Note that if we came here with the Platinum Chip on our inventory, the Legion would confiscate it. And we'd have to retrieve it from Caesar himself. We must now cross the moat. And climb the hill to reach Caesar in his tent at the top. Now that we're here, we have two missions. The first is to use the Platinum Chip to open a secure hatch to a bunker marked with the logo of the Lucky 38. wherein, a house tells us we'll find a surprise. And if we allowed Benny to flee with the chip, we have to track him down. We'll tackle both of those tasks in our next episode. I publish weekly Fallout content here on my channel, so be sure to subscribe and click that bell notification button. So that you don't miss my next episode. What are your thoughts on Mr. House so far? Is he the cold and eluf, not at home that the O'Meritors made him out to be? Or do you have sympathy with some of his arguments? After all, we learned a lot from our conversation with him. We learned that he is single-handedly responsible for protecting Vegas. If it weren't for him, Vegas would just be another post-apocalyptic ruin. Could we not argue that if anyone has any moral right to own Vegas, it would be House? Would it then be immoral to side with any faction that would strip Vegas from House, even if in doing so it were to benefit mankind? Or should we say that no man has any moral right to claim a city for himself, even if he's the one directly responsible for saving it? Let me know your impression so far in the comment section below. I have a brand new shirt in the shop, folks. Now I am become death, the destroyer of worlds. This is the phrase thought by Oppenheimer upon witnessing the world's first nuclear detonation. It comes to the mind of Nick Valentine when he witnesses a similar such detonation on the island near Far Harbor. You can find the image and the quote on men's and women's shirts in a wide array of colors and in a variety of sizes. I've got a bunch of other products in the shop besides shirts, so if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming one of my patrons on Patreon. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with the next episode. I'm harsh on the children but they'll be excellent legionaries. I'm quite proud of them.