In our last episode, we arrived at the town of Gecko, had a telepathic conversation with a tribal wizard, where given economic data reports by an intelligent, talking mole rat named The Brain, and suffered verbal abuse from a ghoul named Woose who repeatedly beat us at a game of tragic the garnering. Oh, and we got a working car. It was an eventful episode. Now, we must head back to Gecko to finally fix their nuclear reactor with the part that we got from Councilmember McClure at Vault City. But before we head to the reactor, we recall that Skeeter offered to upgrade our weapons for free if we got him a three-step plasma transformer. We can get a transformer from Jeremy in the reactor, but before he'll give us the transformer, we have to give him a part requisition form. But Harold won't just give us a part requisition form, we have to steal it. So heading to the manager's office, we explore all of his containers until we explore his desk. Inside, we find two clipboards, but only one is the part requisition form we need. The top one. The bottom one is a coolant report, which does have its own use, so we'll go ahead and take this for later. And if we move through a door to the west and examine the bookshelf against the wall, we find a big book of science. With the form in our hand, we can finally head east to walk through the front door to Poseidon Energy Reactor number five. We see that the reactor is a sprawling labyrinth of connected rooms. We're in the main lobby, and here we find a receptionist. Hello friend, he says, I have to let you know that if anything goes wrong, any non-goals like you are going to be blamed. I'll be careful we can say, and then we can ask him for directions. He tells us that the reactor room is through the door to the right. We follow that path all the way to the end, past a yellow security door. To access the reactor room, we'll need a yellow security key card. We can ask him, is it safe for people to be living here? And he says, well, we ghouls see we like the background radiation leakage here. The glowing ones really like it. None of us would feel very well without it, background leakage we can say. And he says, well, I wouldn't worry about it unless you plan to stay here for more than a couple of weeks. Most of the radiation that the reactor leaks goes into the coolant water, and we pump that back underground. The little bit that leaks above ground just feels good to us somehow. When we ask him how to get the key card we need to access the reactor room, he says, well, I think Jeremy has a key. The guards at the security doors have keys, as to some of the people that live in the reactor. With directions to the reactor room, we now know where to go. But we'll take our time exploring the entire Gecko power plant, room by room. We'll start by moving northwest. If we go straight through three doors, we find a supply and trash room. Nothing of interest here. Heading back we can go east down the hallway. The room to the right is empty. So exploring north, we find a long room and a small room attached to it. The long room has an important ghoul inside. We'll talk to him in a minute. The small room is empty, but the room at the very end of this long room has a whole bunch of lockers. The third from the left has some boxed foods, and the first to the left has another box of cheesy poofs. And these ghouls do love their cheesy poofs. Heading out of this room and going through the door to the right, we find a bit of a warehouse. One of the ghouls says, talk to Jeremy. You know the rules. Another one says Jeremy takes care of all of the supply requests. Before talking with Jeremy, we can examine all of these containers. Most of them are empty. In the bookshelf to the right, we find a big book of science. The rest of these containers are empty. To find Jeremy, we have to go back into the room to the left, just south of the room with all the lockers. He's the ghoul standing in the middle of the room. Hello there, he says, my name's Jeremy. I'm in charge of the all-powerful supply cabinet here. I keep track of all of our stored supplies. All powerful, we can say. And he says, okay, maybe not all powerful. But it's pretty damn important. What do you need? I need something from storage, we can say. And he says, well, if you want something from storage, you need to have a request authorization form. Do you have a request authorization form? And if we took the one from Harold's office, or if we took the one from Festus, we do. And we can say, yes, here it is. Well, this looks like it. All right, what do you need? We can say, I need a mosque-covered three-handled gradanza. Now, that's an obscure pup cultural reference. It's reference to the 1971 The Cat in the Hat animated musical television special. Somebody stole my mosque-covered three-handled family gradanza. It's no wonder then Jeremy replies, you need a what? Well, there's a waiting list for those. Need anything else? Oh, so they actually have a mosque-covered three-handled gradanza? Okay. Well, since it doesn't have one available, we'll instead ask for a three-step plasma transformer. Want to know what I need it for? We can say, and he says, I don't even want to know. I think I have one right here in this cabinet. I, yes, here it is, he says. And we can say, hmm, well, that's not the latest model, but it'll have to do. Thanks and goodbye. And with that, we have exactly what we need to give to skitter for a free weapon upgrade. But we can get two more of these. If we have two part requisition forms, one from Harold and one from Festus, whom we are about to meet, we can go through this dialogue tree again with Jeremy to get a second three-step plasma transformer. Then we can barter with Jeremy to purchase a third three-step plasma transformer. This will allow us to get three free weapon upgrades from skitter. Having out of Jeremy's office, we can explore the three final rooms in this section. We find a storage room with a locker and another yellow key card, in case we didn't get the one earlier from the main town, and moving to the room just east of this, we find a bookshelf with a blue key card inside. We don't need this now. We can't use it in the power plant, but we will be able to use it later in the game. So we'll save it for now. The room across the hall is empty. With this section explored, we can move east to explore the eastern side of the plant. Going through a door, we find a room attached here, but it's empty. So continuing west, we open a door to find two guards guarding a door with a yellow number five. This must be the yellow door that the receptionist told us about. But then we remember that we looted a yellow key card from the survival gear shop in yesterday's episode. So using the yellow key card in our inventory, we can gain access. Continuing to explore, we find a number of bedrooms where the ghouls sleep. In the first bedroom to the left upon entering the yellow door, we find a bookshelf and inside the bookshelf, the red key card. The room just south of this one is empty, so continuing west, we can open a southern yellow door into a large computer room. The ghouls here just have random settler dialogue, so continuing west, we can head through a door into the western most room. Here we find a ghoul described as a particularly unkempt ghoul. This is Festus. Skeeter back in the town told us that Festus is another guy we can get a part requisition form from, in case we didn't want to take one from Harold. And he's the guy that the talking mole rat the brain told us we could convince to repair the reactor as long as we had the right part. Hello there, I'm Festus. I run the whole reactor. Without me, the whole town would be shut down. I'm a very busy man. They really overwork me here. What do you do here we can ask? And he says, well I supervise the atomic power plant. Really though I run the whole thing by myself. By yourself we can say, well then what are all those other people in the next room doing? And he says, waste rules. That's all they are. They don't really understand what needs to be done. They're just placeholders. It irks me that they think they know something about atomic power plants. Why, if it weren't for me, I run the whole thing you see in a supervisory capacity, all by myself. It would be impossible if I just weren't so darned good at it. It's a gift really. You must know quite a bit about atomic power then we can say. And he says no about atomic power. Well I almost invented it. I know more about atomic power than anyone alive. If it's atomic power, I'm your man. You know, I really do run the whole thing. It's pretty tough. But I do have many years of experience. I'm all pro when it comes to running atomic power plants. You must be very good at your job we can say. And he says most people think it's easy. They think that just anyone can run an atomic reactor, but it's not for the untrained or faint of heart. I am harnessing the power of the atom here. I am impressed the chosen one can say. And he says it sure would be nice to have some help. But you see, no one else is qualified to do what I do. They don't even understand the basics of what I do. How could anyone hope to keep up with you we can say? And he says I can tell that you really understand things like this. If I weren't so busy here I'd run Gecko. And let me tell you, I'd run it right. You'd run the town too we can say. And he says well if I ran the town, there wouldn't be any of this trading with broken hills for Uranium ore. We just trade them power for it instead. They could run their city using the power of the atom. Wouldn't you have to run power lines across miles and miles of hazardous desert we can point out? And he says well my suppose so. Then we'd have them buy giant batteries from us. Yes, that's the beauty of it. Then they'd have to buy the batteries from us too. And that's just a start. I have other big plans like oh you're a politician too. The chosen one can interject. It's incredible that your talents cover such diverse fields. And he says I'm just multi faceted. Really I'm very good at whatever I try. seldom is there anyone better. Of course I just happen to prefer running an atomic power plant. But if I wanted to I could do anything else. I can't believe that everyone at Gecko doesn't see your true worth we can say I'm going to go tell them right now. Goodbye. But before we go brag to the world about how amazing this Festus guy is, we can try to get some truth out of him. I understand that the reactor isn't running very well. Is that true? And he says well it sure uses a lot of Uranium and it leaks some. You know I asked somebody to fix it but no one listens to me. And we can say well I've heard that it's leaking radiation into the groundwater. Is that true? And he says well that's possible but I don't think it would do any harm to anything. It's underground after all. I think you might be wrong we can say. Valtz city's been complaining that your atomic reactor has been tainting their water with radiation. Not possible he says no one would know more about it than me. They're just looking for someone to blame for their problem. We don't even draw from the same aquafire. Yes, I'm sure we can say but so did they. Well they're just a bunch of amateurs when it comes to atomic power he says. I'm the real expert here. You can take what I say to the bank. If there were any banks left that is. Finally we can comment on his hygiene. Why do you look and smell as though you're falling apart? We can ask. And he says what do you mean? Oh well I guess I have been working pretty darn hard lately. Haven't had time to really take care of myself the way I should. Maybe the radiation just affects me a little differently. Uh well we can say maybe you should consider bathing or something to take care of that funk. And he says well I guess I should. Whenever I bathe though a lot of my skin sloths off and all my scabs break open and another thing my fingernails keep tearing. Hold on wait I think I've heard enough we can say uh let's back up a little. And finally we can address the task at hand and if we have the hydro electric magnetosphere regulator that we got from Randallod Valtz city we find an option to say well I have a part that you can use to fix the reactor. And he says you have a spare hydroelectric magnetosphere regulator on you and a chosen one is surprised. You actually know what that is. And he says surprised. I told you that I know all about atomic power plants you should have listened to me. We can say great wow since you know what it is you must know how to install it. Of course I do says fastest. Why that's just plain simple for someone of my experience and talent. I was weaned on a magnetosphere regulator says a pup you know. That's great the chosen one can say could you install it for me. And he says well I guess I could install it. I'm certainly the only one who could install it right. Installing a hydroelectric magnetosphere regulator is pretty tricky. At this point we could back out to try to find another way or we can say here's the regulator. I knew I could count on you. Okay I'm here but I'm still not sure that this isn't the right part or that it's not a trap somehow. I'm much too valuable to waste. Maybe I should just let someone else do this later much later. And to get him to install the part we have to pass a speech check. We can say it needs to be done now and you're the only person that can do it right. Come on we can say buttering him up a bit. All of Gecko depends on you. And with that he shuffles off to fix the reactor. A moment later he comes back and he says okay that's got it. Hey I did it. I really am that good. And with that we complete the quest and we earn 4,250 experience. But this is only one way to complete the quest. Let's say our speech skill was not high enough to convince Festus to install it for us. Well we have other options. After stealing or bartering a part-right position form from him and looting a bunch of booze from his locker we can continue to the west. Passing through the yellow doors we reach a room with two more rooms on either side to the left or the right. Both of these rooms are empty so to continue we can use the red key card we found here in the plant to open the big doors with the red number five. This leads us to a reactor control room being managed by a ghoul named Hank. Hello he says I'm Hank. I take care of the inside of the reactor core. Not that much ever needs to be done there. Here we find a couple of options and a number of ways to fix the reactor core. We can say hi Hank I need to get inside the core. He says I wouldn't advise that smoothie. You'd fry into a crisp. Me I like the warmth but I wouldn't recommend it for you. Quite a bit of heat and radiation in there. That's why the smoothies that built this place included a maintenance bot. A maintenance bot? We can ask and he says yeah the smoothies that built this place didn't want to fry either so they included a robot. It was designed to perform maintenance tasks by remote control from a terminal in a room to the west. That's perfect. I can use that we can say and he says well it hasn't worked too well lately. It kept overheating. We don't need to use it anyway so we didn't bother to fix the heat shielding on it. If you can figure out the control codes and don't run it for too long you may be able to get it to do what you want. So now the stage is set we have to make a choice. Our first option of course is to sabotage the power plant and there are three ways to do so. The first is to enter the reactor core room ourself. The problem with this is that inside the room we are bombarded by radiation and both we and our companions constantly receive damage. If however we can keep ourselves alive long enough to reach the big red wheel on the western side of this room we can turn off the coolant to the reactor. However doing so requires passing a strength check. This wheel is rusty and we have to turn it three times. Each time we try to turn it the game performs a check and sometimes we succeed and sometimes we don't. But if we manage to turn it once then twice then a third time we finally see a message that says sounds like you have closed the valve. We have turned off coolant to the reactor and it is now melting down. If we choose this option however when we try to retrace our steps the ghouls of gecko turn hostile and we have to fight our way out. The other option to destroy the plant is to trick HANK into doing it. We recall from my last episode that herald told us that he received a report that if acted upon would have caused the reactor to melt down. The other day I get a report on it it says the main coolant valve should be shut down that would have caused a melt down that would make the grand canyon look like a pig wall. This is none other than the coolant report that we looted from herald's desk when we were looking for the requisition form. If we looted this coolant report and we then talk to HANK hello he says nice have you to visit me again feels nice and toasty this close to the core most smoothies don't care for that. We find an option to say HANK I have a coolant report from herald that you need to see. Here you go he says let me look this over. According to this our coolant level is way too high. I would have thought that turning off the coolant would lead to immediate meltdown but I guess not I'd better go turn off the coolant right now. We do find an option to back out or we can say good thinking HANK I'd better be going goodbye and with that HANK enters the reactor core room goes all the way around to the big wheel and shuts it off. With that the reactor core begins to melt down and just like last time all the ghouls turn hostile and we have to fight our way out. The third option to cause the meltdown is to program the robot to do it. We see the robot on the other side of this window and HANK told us that we can program him from this nearby terminal. Now to get to this point we have to go through a lot of complicated hacking and guessing which I'll get to in a moment but once we get through all of that we find an option to program a task into the robot. We choose add a command then we go all the way down to the bottom of the list and choose turn main coolant valve off then we execute the program the robot activates he goes all the way around the room and stops at the red wheel. He then gives it a spin and shuts off the coolant starting the meltdown and again the ghouls turn hostile. If we destroy the plant and manage to escape with our lives when we return to the settlement we see that the door to the power plant is completely caved in. There's no going back. Strangely the other ghouls in town are not hostile and Harold doesn't comment on the fact that we destroyed his reactor but now we can head back to Vault City to get our reward from first citizen Lynette. Yes what is it? About the gecko power plant. Have you resolved the situation? The power plants been destroyed if I were you I'd make sure your bra men graze to the southwest from now on. What? You destroyed the plant the contamination you idiot! At least those ghouls are gone. Get out of my sight. Whoa what about the citizenship you promised? I've had enough of your foolishness. You are no longer permitted inside Vault City. My guards will escort you to the front gate. And with that we're banished from Vault City. Strangely there is no other way to destroy the ghouls of gecko to fulfill Lynette's request. Even if we kill all the ghouls of gecko without destroying the plant the quest marker doesn't advance if we come back to Lynette. Our only option is to say that we haven't dealt with the situation yet. So now we can explore the other ways to fix the power plant. We can always try to do it manually by going into the reactor core and installing it personally. But like with trying to turn off the coolant this is hard to do without dying. The other option is to use the robot heading back to the terminal. We can try to learn more about this thing. Hello! Welcome to RMR and RCT station 3. RMR CT we can ask. And at response station number 3 reactor maintenance and repair robot control terminal. Function we can ask this terminal is designed to coordinate and command a reactor maintenance and repair robot. A robot huh we can say? Let me see what I can find out about that. Reactor maintenance robot ready for initialization slash startup sequence. Functional access code, action we can ask. This terminal is used input command data for the robotic maintenance and repair unit assigned to Poseidon oil reactor number 5. This terminal also allows access to Poseidonnet. Poseidonnet? I wonder what that could mean. From here we can choose initiate general maintenance sequence. This service procedure is no longer in memory. Load current service procedure we can select yes. Then it says searching service procedure update not available locally. So we can download a service procedure update. Note however that we only find an option to download the update if we have a science skill of 50 or above. Uplink with central Poseidonnet initiated enter primary security access code sequence 70 y644 008 z21 9x729a46123. We now have to figure out the correct order to punch in these access codes to gain access to Poseidonnet. We figure this out through trial and error but the correct sequence is 9x7299 then 70 y644 and finally 008 z21. Security access code sequence accepted. Welcome to Poseidonnet. From here we can try to download the maintenance robot routines but when we do we get the message searching maintenance robot routines not found. So we've reached at that end. Poseidonnet doesn't have what we need to program the robot. We'll have to backtrack to find another option but while we are logged into Poseidonnet we find an option to list other stations. We have no idea what this could be. What kind of stations we can select it out of curiosity. Searching Comlinks, searching. Iron Mountain offline, No red offline, sack offline, searching Poseidonnet more, more active Poseidonnet stations, atomic power plant number 5, Navarro refinery, control station, enclave. Enclave Vault Research Control? Access denied. Here the chosen one can ponder. Everything is shut down except for the enclave Vault Research Control. I wonder what that is. Pod clave here. Why isn't your video feed working? Oh, uh, we are working on the visual link right now. I just wanted to test it. Well your unit still isn't appear to be operational power. Who is this? Uh, please repeat over. Try the gain. Gain? Why am I supposed to gain? I keep pretty active. I don't think I can gain anything. I didn't make a damn bit of difference. I'm still not getting a damn thing. Who are you? The video feeds not working? Well, that's not unusual, is it? Nothing works right anymore. Ain't it the truth. Just don't let anyone who's got the presidency here, that you'll be making cattle runs to New Reno till the end of time, pal. Only got two legs. I'd be pretty tired by the time I got there. Oh, very funny. But you'd have a great place to recover from your run. At least from what I say here. So you mentioned the president? Yeah, you know I want happy. He gets when people complain. He takes it personal. Like it's a loyalty thing. Maybe that just goes with being the president of the United States. I want the left of him. Wait, the president of the United States? The president of the United fucking States of America. Who do you think I was talking about? Who is it? What is it? Kick your fucking ass. Who is this? So you're not in New Reno then? This is on Cleve Main Com. But you should know that. Who are you? We have a couple of sarcastic options, all of which get the same response. We can say, oh, I'm just, uh, hey, you ever noticed that cooked gecko tastes kind of like Brahman but? Or we can rehash a famous quote that we should be very familiar with. Uh, we're all fine here. How are you? But uh, everything's perfectly all right now. We're fine. We're all fine here. Oh, thank you. How are you? From here on out, he has the same response for all of these options. You're putting a trace on me? Well, I'm putting a trace on you too, pal. A few more moments and I'll have your sorry ass in the sling. Hey, wait a minute. This can't be right. I've got you somewhere on the mainland. Oh, that can't be right. I'm at the calm desk right across the hall from you. May jilluck. What a roob. I've got you at Poseidon Oil, reacting number five. Oh, well, why don't you just sit tight and not load her up a little celebration for you, including fireworks. I'm the chosen one. You just better make sure you say that with a smile. You know, whoever you are, just dispatch to Verdi assaulting to your location. Have a nice day. And what are they going to do? Usually they just go in shooting. They let someone else sift through the ashes to figure out what was going on. Oh, now you've made me all scared. I need to change my undies. Yeah, goodbye. Next news on you will be when I read the After Action Report. Despite this humorous exchange, nothing happens. I went outside, no vertebrates, no enclave, nothing. Empty threats from this guy on the other end of the terminal. If we go back to try to get him up on Poseidonette again, we get a message accessing enclave station access denied. Maybe I should try again? Accessing again? Access denied. Maybe I should try again? Accessing yet again? Persistent little cuss, aren't you? On-clive station access denied. Well, maybe I should try again? Accessing yet again? Aren't you getting tired of this? On-clive station access denied. Maybe I should try again? Accessing yet again? Don't you have anything better to do with your time on-clive station access denied? Maybe I should try again? That's it. I've had enough of the constant prodding. If you just try one more time, you're going to regret it. Maybe I should try again. Don't say I didn't warn you. Just as we read this, we feel a surge of electricity arcing through our fingers from the keyboard. Despite this, we don't actually take damage, and we can't repeat this again. Well, that was a nice detour, but that didn't solve our problem with the robot. We've already used the robot to destroy the reactor. Now we need to see if we can use this robot to fix the reactor. To do so, we need to input the correct access codes. The first access code is A1 54 67 61. The secondary access code is 5B 57 60 O 5, and the tertiary access code is 35 C 7 68 63. Access code accepted. Unit warming up. Unit ready for service. Service procedure? We can initiate a repair sequence, repair service initiated, searching hydroelectric magnetosphere regulator required, preparing to move to main coolant valve for park replacement, place park replacement, and transfer tray beneath terminal. If we got the hydroelectric magnetosphere regulator from Vault City, the chosen one can say, oh, I guess it means this thing. And we place it in the tray. Hydroelectric magnetosphere regulator accepted. Scanning? Park with abdominal QA constraints. Transfer to repair unit completed. Proceed? We can choose yes. RRR unit rollout initiated. Checking drive systems okay. Checking manipulator arm? Okay. Checking internal stabilizer okay. Logic circuits fail. Uh-oh. The logic circuits failed. I wonder what that means. Job task localization recognition and operative. Unit not capable of recognizing movement locations at extended distances. Recommended. Move unit to intermediary locations as waypoints to final job task location. I wonder what happens if I don't enter the jobs in the right order. Ponders the chosen one, and the robot responds. Manual direction. The RM and RR unit must be directed manually to its target destination. The unit will follow the movement commands that you give it, but if its way is blocked or the unit takes excess damage, it will automatically return to its bay. When ready, we need to run a program for the robot to navigate it to the red wheel. We start by adding a command, and we find a number of options here. We can correctly plot a journey for the robot by going into the reactor core room our self first and discovering the names of each of the pieces of machinery that we pass on the way to the red wheel. But that's the hard way. The names of each of these waypoints gives us a clue as to their correct order. Each option has a very familiar name in it. Uranium, plutonium, Saturn, class, Neptuneium, Jupiter wave compiler. Each of these options has a name of one of the planets of our solar system. The correct order is to choose each option in order of the planets from the edge of the solar system as they get closer to Earth. So we'll start by amplifying the plutonium gamma shield. We enter that as program step number one. To continue writing our program, we have to go back to the main menu, add a new command, and this time we'll choose to de-harmonize the Neptuneium impeller, Pluto, then Neptune. The next step is to calibrate the Uranium raw driver, then to set voltage on the Saturn class capacitor, then to test the Jupiter wave compiler, Pluto, Neptune, Uranus, Saturn, and Jupiter. I suppose this means that Pluto is still a planet in the Fallout universe. If we choose these options in the correct order, we then find an option to either turn the main coolant valve off, which we did previously, or to install the hydroelectric magnetosphere regulator. When ready, we can end program, and then execute the program. The robot moves out again, and like last time, we navigate him correctly around the room, but instead of turning off the coolant, it installs the missing piece. The robot has repaired the power plant. We gain 4,500 experience. Thanks for helping us out, says Hank. Heading back to Festus, he says the reactors running pretty good now, alright. Could still do with a tiny bit of tune up maybe, but I'd say it's a pretty good job all the same. More work we can ask? What do you mean? And he says I mean that the reactors running now, but it sure could run better. I mean better by a long country mile if we just had to smidge more data. Now if you could get the optimization data, we'd be cooking with gas. Uh, well, you know what I mean. Optimization data we can ask, where would I get that? Well, you could probably get the information from the Vault City Central computer. Well, let me see what I can do we can say, and he says I bet a clever one like you could just sneak in there and use a holo disk with the reactor performance information on the central computer. Then sneak the disk right back here. That'd do it. I'd do it myself, but I'm just too valuable here to leave, even for a moment. Well, I hate to leave a job only half done the chosen one can say and Festus says that's the spirit. I was a hope and you'd say that great. Just use this disk here on Vault City's central computer and then get it right back here. We'll use less uranium. The core won't leak so bad and this Vault City won't have any reason to destroy Gecko. I sure don't want to see Gecko destroy the chosen one can say I'll do it. With that, he gives us a holo disk we need to download the reactor optimization data from the Vault City main computer. After repairing the power plant, we can head out to check in with Harold. My idea helping us out with the atomic power plant, we're in your debt. Now, what can this cranky old carcass do for you? How are you doing now? Well, we're doing better now you fixed our reactor. I never thought anybody get those idiots in Vault City to help us out. Well, I didn't want to see Vault City destroy your town. Besides, it was in their best interest to fix your power plant as well. Their best interest? What do you mean? Well, according to some economic data I got a hold of, Vault City is much better off if they help you repair your power plant. The economic data? You didn't give them that information that that Gordon keeps flapping his app about did you? Uh, yes I did. Why? Why? Now Vault City knows just how much we need uranium or from broken hills. They could cut off them shipments and we'd be finished. Oh, it can't be as bad as all that. They seem like reasonable people to me. Reasonable reasonable. Well, I'm sure people said the master was reasonable too. What a boon he is. Get the hell out now. Despite his protestation here, sharing the economic data with McCleur has no negative impact on the game. In fact, Gecko gets a better ending if we share that information with McCleur. However, that ending is inaccessible due to a game bug. So his reaction here is very strange. Alternatives of Louweak and Chuse not to tell him that we gave the economic data to McCleur. Lady Kindier, not many smoothskins would do that for a terrible ghouls. Kind of reminds me of a smoothie I knew way back when. Another smoothie? What do you mean? Another smoothskid. Had a lot of respect for that one. Who was that? Well, I could probably remember if I wasn't dead. I'd never get tired of that joke. Maybe you don't. To be honest, can't remember the name. But they were a funny suit. Kind of like the one you were. I'm wearing the vault suit that my ancestor wore. It's a totem of my holy quest. That's all. Well, well, that explains the singer too. I wondered why you looked familiar. I'm not losing the last couple of marbles I got left. We really look alike? There is a resemblance near as I can remember anyways. You know, your ancestor saved the whole darn lot of us. The vaultweller saved all of the ghouls? Jump into conclusions, youngster. That's going to get your ass shot off someday. All of us saved every two-legged shuffler on the dang plant. I didn't realize that. Well, now you do. And what happened next? For a thank you that damn high and mighty vaulties booted the vaultweller out. I always wondered what happened after that. I can tell you what happened. But I'd sure like to hear that. The legend of the vaultweller starts with the vault casting him out into the dry wastes. We then go on to tell Harold the story of our ancestor. And so that's why I'm looking for vault 13 now. Well, thanks for telling. I sure was curious all these years. You got your work cut out for you. You know, know what? Well, I've been saving these for a rainy day. But it sounds like you're going to need him more than I am, Roel. Here. Take these. Thank you, Harold. And with that, he gives us three super-stimpacts. Standing next to Harold is a ghoul who has a character model unlike all others in the town. The game describes him as an especially short, older ghoul. Hello there, he says. My name's Lenny. How can I help you? Oh, it looks like Lenny has a bit of a stutter. What do you do here, we can ask? And he says, well, I help Harold mostly. When people get hurt, I help them too. Help Harold do what we can ask. And he says, I help Harold administer the town. There's always more paperwork to do. You can heal people, we can ask? Well, before the war, I was a doctor, he says. Before the war. But that must have been almost 160 years ago, we can say. And he says, that's true. But radiation seems to have given us ghouls a longer lifespan. Of course, it took almost everything else away. Took things away, we can say. And he says, well, yes, we look like friggin' freaks. We don't have any skin for Christ's sakes. Well, we can say, I guess you have seen better days. You could say that, he says. I trade all those years to be in normal person again. Well, not much hope of that, I suppose we can say. And he says, if those fools in Vault City would share their medical technology, I'm sure we could cleanse the excess radiation and heal ourselves. They won't help you, we can say. And he says, you've been to Vault City? Then you tell me what you think the chances of getting help from those bigots is. Might as well watch a paper dog, chasing his bestos can't through hell. That's an interesting analogy. As a doctor, we can use him to heal ourselves. And then we can ask him, hey Lenny, have you ever heard of something called a Garden of Eden creation kit? A Garden of Eden creation kit? I heard that Vault City had one of those. That's the only one I've ever heard of though. Well, we can say, in my ancestor, the Vaultweller said that Vault 13 owes us one. I need to find it. Well, I didn't actually meet the Vaultweller, but I saw them once, says Lenny. You saw the Vaultweller? Where? It was a long time ago, says Lenny, in a place called Necropolis. A lot of us ghouls live there. One day I saw someone running through the city. Running, we can say. And he says, yes, running. You see, we ghouls can't run too much anymore, so I knew it was an outsider when I saw them. They ran by so close I could have touched them. I wish that I had joined the Vaultweller. You wanted to join my grandsyre we can ask. And he says, yes, I had a chance of a lifetime and I blew it. What do you mean we can say? And he says later, I heard that the Vaultweller had fixed our water system. The Vaultweller saved us. All of us, do you understand? It didn't matter that we were ghouls for once. It didn't matter. We were people again, worth saving. My ancestor was the founder of our tribe, we can say. That memory is revered amongst my people. Later says Lenny, I heard that the Vaultweller destroyed the source of the mutant army. The Vaultweller saved all of us. Human and ghoul alike. I could have been a part of that, but I lacked the courage. I've never forgiven myself. I'm following in my ancestor's footsteps, we can say. Would you like another chance? Will you join me? And he says, I'm happier than a bull Brahman in a pasture full of cows. I'd be honored to join you. I'm maybe old and can't move too darn fast, least way is not for too long, but I can sure patch you up when you need it. I'm glad you can join me, we can say. I'm sure your healing skills will come in handy. And with that, Lenny joins our party. He's not the best companion, but he is a unique one. He has a high doctor skill between 85 and 125% depending on his level. We can use him in much the same way that we use Vic. To use his doctor skill, we simply use our own doctor skill. Then if his doctor skill is higher than ours, he'll run to whomever we are trying to heal and use his doctor skill instead. In combat, he's okay. As a humanoid, he is at least able to use different types of armor, including power armor. And he's got a decent amount of hit points between 129 and 206, making him a great damage sponge. He can use many pistols in the game, including the 223 pistol and a gouse pistol. But as he said in his recruitment dialogue, he is slow and lumbering. It can often take him a while to catch up with the rest of the party. And being a ghoul, having him in our party can make things complicated. For example, if we go to Vault City, the guards refuse to allow us through the gate with Lenny in our party. That mutant had better step away from the gate. Now they say, this is easy to bypass. We simply ask Lenny to wait here. Then we can open the gate. Then once the gate is open, we can quickly ask Lenny to follow us again, and we can race inside Vault City. But once inside, we have to be careful whom we talk to. For example, if at any time with Lenny in our party, we try to talk with first citizen lanette. What is this creature you have with you? Such things are not permitted inside Vault City. Guards escort these intruders to the front gate at once. You don't like my friend, huh? That's too bad, because he likes you for dinner. And that's one of the many ways we can turn everyone in Vault City hostile. So if we want to travel with Lenny, in situations like this, we need to have him wait behind. Back at Gecko, before we leave, we can head to Skeeter to give him the three step plasma transformer that we got from Jeremy. Heading to Skeeter in his shop, he says, great, you've got my plasma regulator. Thanks. Now I owe you some free work. What did you want me to work on? I'll tell you how much it would have cost, but this one's already paid for. There are six weapons in the game that Skeeter can upgrade. The cattle prod, the desert eagle 44, the 44 magnum revolver, the hunting rifle, the assault rifle, or the FNFAL. He can upgrade the cattle prod into a super-cattle prod. This increases the cattle prod's damage to between 20 and 32. He can upgrade the desert eagle into the desert eagle with an expanded magazine. This increases the desert eagle's ammo capacity from eight to 20. He can upgrade the 44 magnum to the 44 magnum speed load. This decreases the AP cost for reloading a weapon during combat. This particular weapon is the only one in the game that only costs one AP to reload, all others cost two. And this upgrade also increases the range of the weapon to 20 hexes. He can upgrade the hunting rifle to a scope-tunting rifle. This increases the hunting rifle's accuracy and range. However, the scope makes it harder for the weapon to hit targets that are up close. He can upgrade an assault rifle to the assault rifle expanded magazine, which increases the ammo capacity of the weapon from 24 to 100 rounds. And finally, he can upgrade the FNFAL to an FNFAL knight site. This removes the chance to hit penalty that we normally get when trying to aim at enemies in the dark. It also makes it a wonderful weapon to use inside caves. When done with Skeeter, we can head down to the survival and gear locker to check in with Percy Crump. Bygosh and Bygully, I just sure can't thank you enough for getting my friend back. J. Willikers, I've got to give you something for your troubles. He's referring to the fact that we rescued his friend Woody from the den in our last episode. I was glad to help you out, we can say. And he says, this big old chest of anti-radiation medicine sure ain't doing me no good. Just about 100 something years too late for me to use it. Here you go, I'm finding that friends is worth more and more every year. I was glad to help you and Woody we can say thanks for the meds. And with that he gives us four rad away and three rad X. A little underwhelming considering his claims, but we'll take it. And finally, we can head underground to check in with the brain. Hmm, he says, I smell the distinctive aroma of cheesy poofs on you. You don't happen to have some spare do ya? I just love cheesy poofs. Okay, sure we can say, I could spare some cheesy poofs and he says, crunch, much, crunch. Hmm, I love cheesy poofs. I love cheesy poofs. You love cheesy poofs. If we didn't eat cheesy poofs, we'd be lame. They're so well, uh cheesy. For that you get to be a member of my special cult and you can help me take over the world. Jay, right? What do you want to do tonight? The same thing we do every night, Pinky. Try to take over the world. Are you ready to accept renewal and wear my aunt talisman? He then offers us another aunt talisman, which we can either accept or reject. Then we can talk about the reactor data disc that we got from Festus. How do we use the data disc we can ask? And he says, you have to use the reactor data disc on Vault City's central computer. You can either sneak in and use it or if you have the economic data disc, you can go to McClure. Economic data disc we can say? And he says, well, the reactor is running, but not very efficiently. We need to use Vault City's central computer to analyze our reactors output report. And the chosen one can respond, Vault City's central computer. I'm sure that open-minded people like that would be happy to help a giant mutated rat in a city full of ghouls. And he says, why don't you talk to that old windbag that stink and sack Festus in the power plant and see if he can dredge some useful information out of his rotting skull. He may know of a means of optimizing the power plant. I'll let our comrades here in Gecko know of your mission. That sounds like a great idea we can say goodbye. Alright, well, we've already talked with Festus about optimizing the power plant and we have his holotape. The brain here just must not have known that. Now we need to head back to Vault City to tell McClure that we repaired the power plant and finally get our citizenship. I repaired Gecko's plant. And he says, excellent. I was worried that the radiation buildup might force us to relocate. You are to be commended on a job well done. Here's your citizenship papers. If you ever need anything, come see me. Vault City prevails, counselor, we can say. And with that, we are officially a citizen. But we're not done with McClure yet. We still need to talk with him about optimizing the Gecko reactor. Now that we have the holodisk from Festus, we find an option to say, I have a reactor data disk here from Gecko. According to the technician at the power plant, the Vault City computer can optimize the reactor disk and make the plant run more smoothly. Very well, citizens, as council member McClure, you have my permission to use the Vault computer and optimize the reactor disk. You can find it on the third level of the Vault. You're the operations room. Excellent, we say. Thank you, counselor. I'll go do that. And with our new found citizenship, we can go rub it into first citizen lanette. Yes, what is it? About the Gecko power plant. Have you resolved the situation? I took care of Gecko's power plant. You shouldn't have any more trouble with it leaking radiation. So you disabled their plant? No, I repaired it. counselor McClure gave me the part I needed and that was enough to get the plant running properly. What? He did? I suppose he granted you citizenship also. Fixing Gecko's plant won't solve anything. Those creatures, they cannot be trusted. What happens when their plant starts leaking again? Oh, I don't know. Maybe help them fix it? You would better watch your step in this city, citizen. I'll be watching you. One misstep and you'll be exiled. So? I'll just get McClure to get my citizenship back. He seems like real first citizen material. Do not toy with me, or I will make certain you never walk Vault city streets again. You watch yourself, first citizen. Goodbye. At last, we are finally citizens of Vault city and we can now finally explore the Vault. But we're out of time. We'll explore Vault 8, the Vault from which Vault city was born in my next episode. I publish new videos each and every week on my channel. So if you don't want to miss it, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and if you feel like you're still missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxwarn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wider ray of colors. You can find them on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.