In our last episode, we repaired the Gecko power plant so that it no longer pumps irradiated water underground where it contaminated groundwater. First citizen Lannette de Valtz city was none too pleased with our efforts, but Councilman McClure was very pleased and so he gave us Valtz city citizenship. At last we can venture into Vault 8 to see if we can find the location of Vault 13, or any other Vault that might happen to have a Geck. While we're here we need to also download reactor optimization data to give to the ghouls at Gecko. Heading inside we see that Valtz hate's door is wide open. We hear the sounds of computers making noise in the next room. Do we oop beep ping I say? We see a locker on the wall of this hallway just in the entrance, inside we find two flares and a first aid kit. These are room to the left with an elevator that goes deeper into the vault, but we'll start by exploring the room to the right. Here we find a woman who greets us. Oh, hello there. I haven't seen you around before. Are you a new citizen? Yeah we can say, I just recently got my citizenship. Well welcome to Vault City Fellow Citizen. We don't see many new faces around here, I'm Phyllis. What's your name? We find a number of options, many of which can get us into trouble and can even turn Phyllis here hostile. To stay on her good side, we can simply say, my name's Oxhorn. What do you do around here? We learned that she's the resident medical assistant. She works for Dr. Troy in the next room. When we ask her where the central computer is, she says that it's down on the third level, but she hasn't been down there in ages. When we ask her why she says, oh I don't know, not much reason to go down into the vault. It's mostly used for storage space nowadays. The only one down there is Martin and, well, just between you and me, he's not a great conversationalist. When we ask her to tell us more about Vault City, she says, Vault City? Well actually there's not much to say. I mean I've been a citizen all my life, but there's not much to do in Vault City at all. And we can say, well it seems a shame that a beautiful young woman such as yourself can't find something to do in Vault City. Pardon me, she says? I couldn't help but notice you're an attractive young woman who could stand to get out once in a while. How about you and I have dinner, we can say? And if we pass a charisma check she says, oh, well, I… I'd love to. Great, let's go we can say. And after a brief dinner, she says thanks for the wonderful evening. The chosen one says, uh sure, maybe we'll go out some other time. I'll uh… call ya. Bye. And we quickly discover that Phyllis is rather dull and self-centered. We result in ever date anyone like her again. And we gain 100 experience points. This conversation goes very differently with a female chosen one. We again find the option to flirt with her, but instead of being down for it she says, oh, I… you know, I'd love to, but I can't. And a female chosen one can say, oh come on. I'm new. I'll get in a trouble if I go around by myself. And Phyllis very sternly says, I'm sorry, but no. Add this we can accept it and keep on talking, or say, well, it's good to see same sex prejudice as alive and well involved city. Bye. And end the conversation. Or instead of flirting with her, we can say, really, nothing happens here at all. Come on. And she says, look, I know you're a new citizen and all. And I don't mean to throw a damper on your citizenship, but the city can be very dull at times. Dull? How so we can ask? And she says, I mean, have you noticed how similar everyone is? And old? Most of the seminars and extracurricular activities are geared towards octogenarians. I'm barely 25. And this makes me feel like I'm 50. I did notice the similarity of citizens we can say. And she says, it's like they're all clones. They all dress alike, act alike, and the worst part is that everyone seems happy with it. I, well, sometimes I worry that I'll end up just like them. That probably sounds silly, huh? And the chosen one can say not at all. Pressure to conform must be really rough around here, especially concerning how insular a community vault city is. And she says, yeah, it can get kind of overwhelming at times, but here I am. Bring in down your opinion of vault city. Don't misunderstand me. It's a great place to live. And we can say, just a suggestion, but you might want to travel a little outside of vault city. Even speak to some of the merchants in the court shark. They might be able to broaden your horizons a little. Well, she says, I have been tempted to go outside the gate, but the other citizens have warned me against it. And we can either encourage her to stay, or we can pass a perception check and say, that's just another reason to do it. You don't want to do what the other citizens do, do you? They're all set in their ways. And she says, you know you're right. Maybe I will step outside the gate when I get the chance. I'd like to know more about the outside world. And for convincing Phyllis to see the outside world, we gain 300 experience. Speaking of everyone looking old, we can say, I noticed that there aren't any children in the city. And she says, well, yes, actually there aren't. Yet, I don't know if anyone told you yet, but vault city is a planned community. You're not due for another pregnancy cycle until a few years from now. A pregnancy cycle? We can ask. And she says, yes, pregnancies are permitted only during certain years established by the council. But what if you get pregnant anyway, we can ask. And she says, how would that happen? And we can say, last I heard, sex can make someone pregnant. And she says, oh, you mean intercourse. Intercourse is still allowed outside of pregnancy cycles. And the chosen one can say, well, doesn't that make people pregnant? And she goes, oh, no, no. You see, our pregnancies don't result from intercourse. And that chosen one is afraid to ask, but he will anyway. Male citizens, continue Phyllis, donate to the auto doc here in the vault. And the most favorable matches are chosen by the computer. Then the appropriate female citizen is seeded by the auto doc. And people still get pregnant from intercourse. We can ask, what about accidental pregnancies? And she says, well, actually, you see, this is something I've been thinking about recently, but citizens don't seem to have accidental pregnancies. The only successful pregnancies have been facilitated by the auto doc. You know, we can say background radiation might be resulting in sterility or even worse, chromosomal damage might be worth checking out. And she says, you know, I was thinking the same thing. Maybe I should mention it to Dr. Troy. He has been too busy to look into it recently, but the next pregnancy cycle is coming up. So... And for convincing Phyllis to speak with Dr. Troy about the potential sterility of vault city, we gain 300 experience. After learning the truth about how children are born here in vault 8, the chosen one gets an idea. Can I... Donate? He asks. And Phyllis says, certainly. You need welcome your contribution. Vault City could use some fresh genetic material? We can dive right in and say, all right then, or we can get some help. The chosen one can say, say, could I get a magazine or something? She presumably agrees, because then the screen goes dark, and after a moment, we finish. If we have four or less intelligence, Phyllis says, hmmm... Maybe your contribution wasn't as valuable as I thought. Thanks anyway, though, and the chosen one says, no, thank you. And we get 50 experience. But if we have five or six intelligence, Phyllis says, excellent. Thank you. And the chosen one can say, I have never felt the need to be held more than at this moment. And we get 250 experience. And if we have seven or greater intelligence, Phyllis says, your contribution is impressive. Do yourself seem to be quite gifted. How do you feel? And the chosen one can say, I can honestly say that I've never missed a primitive charm of Arroyo Moore until this moment. And we get 500 experience. Incidentally, all of these options with Phyllis here are part of an unmarked sidequest named Sea Phyllis. Yes, syphilis. I'm not even making that up. With that, we complete our contribution to the gene pool of Valtate. And we see that the magazine that Phyllis gave us was a copy of Kat's paw. So that's why we find it in bathrooms all over the wasteland. Great. When done with Phyllis, we see a couple of terminals behind her. We have to have a high science skill to access them. They both have the same information. You have logged into the Vault City Medical Database. Although the interface is difficult to understand, the database itself seems to be broken down into a series of archives. We can search the archives for the location of Valtz, but we don't find any mention of Valtz in the database. It's mostly medical information relating to anatomy, known diseases, treatments, chems, and implants. Alright, well, we can then search the archives for any mention of the Garden of Eden Creation Kit, and we get the exact same response. So this leaves one option to search the medical database for anything of interest at all. We search the database and are amazed by the information contained in the archives. The current research being conducted in Vault City is fascinating, and their medical technology is beyond anything we have ever seen. We spend almost an hour studying the archives. As we delve deeper into the database, we come across a series of older archives that contain schematics for some sort of combat implants. And by studying these archives, we gain 500 experience. We can then study this implant information we uncovered, the schematics detail and operation for grafting impact plates, and thermal-disappointing membranes into a human skeleton, granting the subject resistance to physical trauma and heat. It looks like a complicated procedure. We can make a note of it, and then search the database for more information. We search the database again, but discover nothing new, the implant schematics were the most useful information in the archives. It's possible we missed something, but we think that's unlikely. But for the sake of completeness, we must search again. We search the database again, but discover nothing new. Maybe if we searched 20 more times, we might find something new. 20 times? That's a very specific number. We search again, but get the same response over and over and over again. But once we search 20 times, we were just kidding. There really is nothing more here. Maybe if you scoured the archives 30 more times, you might find something very deep in one of the archives. Ha ha. Okay. We can search again. Uh, look, says the computer. Go play the rest of the game. You can't stay cooped up in here forever. Oh, so we're breaking the fourth wall now, great. Fine. Keep looking. See if I care. You're just wasting your time. Your intelligence is for, right? Cut it out. Why don't you go play with the nurse? There's nothing here. We search the archives and find nothing. Okay. Well, we've expended all options here. We're getting that default message. But then again, we could keep trying after all who knows. Maybe there really is something buried deeper on in. And after a while, we have searched the terminal 53 times. We have found nothing of interest. It's counting them all. Well, I'm sure one more can't hurt. Just had to do it one more time, didn't ya? Okay, look, here's the big secret. Be sure you go visit the main computer on level 3 after you finish the game. Now log off the terminal and go play outside. And that really is the end. I sat here clicking for quite some time and nothing else ever appeared. So looks like after we beat the game, we'll have to come all the way back to Vault 8 to see what secret lies within the terminal on level 3. And done, we can move to the northern room to speak with Dr. Troy. Hello citizen, he says. How may I be of assistance? I'm in need of your medical expertise, we can say. And he agrees. But when we ask him, if he can heal our companions, he says, I'm sorry. The facilities are only for citizens. And a list of all patients is kept in the database. But then he lowers his voice. However, the Stimpax and the lower level supply lockers would not be missed if you put them to good use. Alright, looks like we'll have to fully explore the lower levels. If our doctor skill is high enough, we find an option here to say, you mentioned before that you were a doctor. I'm something of a doctor myself. Harry tells me you're quite the science whiz. You know, I'm something of a scientist myself. And he says, you are, it's a pleasure to meet you. If you have the time, perhaps we could compare notes. It's not often that I get a chance to speak to another physician. Absolutely we can say. I'd love to learn some of the medical techniques you citizens use. Excellent says Doc Troy. Well first, let me take you on a tour. Over here we have some monitoring systems. And after a nice lengthily tour, he says, and that's how we clone cells to make replacement limbs. We have to be careful that the tissue cultures don't get contaminated. But in any event, I think I've talked enough. I hope it was informative. It certainly was, we can say, after the tour, if we inspect our character, we discover that we've received the Vault Training perk. This perk grants 5% to first aid and 5% to doctor. After receiving this perk, if we ever come back to Dr. Troy while poisoned or irradiated and ask him to heal our poison or radiation, when cured we find an option to say much better thanks. Say, before I get poisoned or irradiated again, during that tour you gave me earlier, I mentioned that you had vaccines that gave resistances to poison and radiation. Could I get that? Doc Troy says, certainly. I'm sorry, it's been some time since I actually had to administer them. Most citizens receive there's many, many years ago. Let me prep the auto-dog for the procedure. All finished he says, a word of caution, this vaccination doesn't make you immune to poison and radiation, but it does bolster your natural resistances. And when we inspect our character again, we see that we have the Vault City Inoculations perk. We've gained plus 10% resistance to both poison and radiation. We have to have at least 75% in doctor in order to start the dialogue with Dr. Troy that leads to both of these perks. We can then ask him, do you know anything about dermal implants? Yes, I am familiar with them, he says. It's an invasive procedure where impact plates and thermal-disappear membranes are grafted to the skeleton to help protect against physical trauma and heat. What do you ask? Well, we can say I ran across them in the Vault City Medical Database. Could you perform the operation on me? And he says no, I'm sorry. As I've said, the implants are an invasive procedure and the recovery period is long and arduous. Patients undergoing the operation in the past have also frequently developed skeletal deformities. I'm willing to risk it we can say, can you please do it anyway? And he says I would consider performing the operation only in the event of an emergency, not for the sake of convenience. The risk is too great and the implants are not a substantial improvement over standard combat armor. Well thanks anyway we can say, maybe I can find someone else to perform the operation. Now we have to either keep our eyes open for a doctor who has fewer moral qualms with this kind of procedure or a rack our memory to see if we've ever met one before. As we are about to leave Dr. Troy takes us aside. Hold on a moment he says, I don't recall seeing you around here before. Are you a citizen? Yes, we can say, I just got my citizenship papers only recently. You're not a Vault City native though, am I right? He says? I certainly would remember someone like you, where are you from? We can be evasive or belligerent, which shuts him down, or we can say I'm from a small village to the west, Arroyo. Arroyo he says, I don't believe I've heard of it. I'm sorry to pry, I'm just looking for someone who had traveled beyond the walls of Vault City. Most citizens have never left the walls of the city. Looking for someone? Why? We can say. And he says, I've been looking for someone who might be able to perform a special errand for me. What is it? We can ask. And he says, it has come to my attention that there is a new Kim in the Wastes. It's called Jet, I believe. I'm willing to pay $1,000 for a sample of this Kim. So you want me to smuggle some Jet into Vault City for you? We can ask. And he says, yes, I'm willing to pay you $1,000 for the sample. And your silence. What do you want the Jet for? We can ask. And he says, that's not your concern. Obtain a sample of Jet, bring it to me, and I will pay you $1,000, and that price includes your silence. It's to keep me from turning you in right now, we can ask. And he says, you wouldn't. How dare you threaten me? Oh, I would, we can say, and I will. How much is your citizenship worth to you? Life out in the Wastes can be pretty rough on a person. And he says, I was a fool for trusting you. Very well. What is it you want? If we try to push our luck by either asking for $2,000 on the first of every month or $1,000 on the first of every month, he says, are you insane? There's no way I can afford that. We can say, you better find a way to afford it, or you'll be begging for scraps into court chart like the rest of the outworlders. But he doesn't have the money. I went to first citizen lunatic to see if there was an option to turn in Dr. Troy to get him exiled from Vault City, but I never found such a dialogue option. Or we can say, alright, alright. Make it 500, and we don't need to involve the first citizen at all. And he says, very well, here's your first payment. I hope you choke on it. It's been a pleasure, Dr. We can say. You'll be seeing me again real soon. With that, we get a steady stream of caps, 500 every month. Or instead of blackmailing him, we can agree to his scheme. And if we happen to have some jet on our inventory, we can say, well, what do you know? I have a sample of jet right here. And he says, you do? Excellent. Thank you, my friend. You have no idea how important this is to my work. Here is your payment as promised. And if we come back to Dr. Troy three months later, he says, I have some good news. I was able to make an antidote from that sample of jet you gave me. What's taken, it nullifies jets with droll symptoms and also removes the euphoria associated with the chem. Great. Can I have some we can say? And he says, of course. Here you go. I understand that the jet problem is especially prevalent in redding. If you take the antidote to the physician there, Dr. Johnson, he should be able to see that it gets to those who need it. Thanks for the antidote, Doc, and we can take it with us. Now there are other ways to complete this quest. The reduced the amount of time it takes for Dr. Troy to produce the antidote. But those other options require meeting other characters who we'll meet later in this series. So we'll revisit those other options at a later time. He doesn't have much else to say, so after healing up, we can head to the elevator and head downstairs. We'll start by going to the second level. Upon arrival, we hear something rattling from an air by air vent. It's making a horrible racket. We'll start by exploring these storage rooms. It looks like these were bedrooms before the residents of Vault 8 activated their geck and left the vault. We even still see bathrooms and showers in these rooms. And the layout is very reminiscent of other vaults we've seen on the west coast. Many of these doors are locked, and the room directly south of the elevator, we find a whole bunch of storage boxes, and inside one, 15 water chips. Oh, the vaultweller from Fallout 1 would be rolling in his grave if he learned about this. Each of these boxes contains more vault gear, 10 water chips and another box, and 15 and another. Near to the bathroom, we find a suitcase on the ground and inside a computer voice module. This is an important piece of equipment. We don't know what it's for yet, but we had better save it because it might come in handy later. We find more water chips in the other crates, and in a trunk on the ground, we find a motion sensor. Heading to the room in the southwestern corner, we learned that the door is stuck. It would take a very strong person to open it. Hmm, sounds like a job for a crowbar. Let's see if we can find one in the vault. Moving right we can enter the next room. In a trunk on the floor, we find a big book of science, some antidote, 150 bucks in a stem pack, and in the room furthest to the southeast, we find a trunk on the ground with another Katzpa magazine. Ah, people really do love their Katzpa magazines. A small dusty box of some sort. This has no real purpose in the game, we can sell it for money. $3, some junk in a couple of beverages. With the lower section of this floor explored, we can move across the hall to explore the northern section. But first, let's see if we can fix that dog on rattling from the air vent. It's driving us crazy. Inspecting it, we see an air vent, supplying processed clean air to the entire vault complex. We can hear a faint rattle from inside the vent. Well, we can fix that. Using our repair skill, we can try to fix this thing, but while we're repairing the vent, we discover that somebody hid something inside the vent. We open the vent and look for the source of the rattling. We spot something lodged inside and pull it out. For making this discovery, we earn 100 experience points. And the item lodged in the vent was a stack of 50 micro fusion cells. Alright. This is one's tidy stash. Now it's ours. The northeastern door is locked. After picking it, we can head inside and inspect the boxes. More water chips. This is just pouring salt on a wound now. Come on guys. Each and every crate has chucked full of them. We find a trunk on the ground inside. We find our wrench, some pliers, a mallet, and hey hey a crowbar. Heading out and moving to the southwestern room, we can try to use the crowbar on the door. And if our strength is not high enough, we learn that even with the crowbar, we still aren't strong enough to force the door open. Well that's nothing a little buff out can't cure. One buff out will grant us plus two strength for a short period of time. And if we pry the door open inside, we find two armor piercing rockets, two explosive rockets, two fragrance grenades, and ten units of flame or fuel. Moving back north, we can explore the second middle room. Like the others we find crates filled with water chips. But we do find a locker on the ground and inside a lighter, a radio, a scout handbook, a coil of rope, five flares, and five knives. Wow, this is quite a haul. Moving to the room just left of this, we find another door that's stuck closed. We'll have to pass a strength check and maybe use a crowbar in some buff out to get it open. To do, we find some metal armor, 2012 gauge shotgun shells, 55 millimeter armor piercing rounds, 55 millimeter jacketed hollow point rounds, 24, 10 millimeter armor piercing rounds, 24, 10 millimeter jacketed hollow point rounds, 20, 44 magnum jacketed hollow point rounds, and one red memory module. This is another important piece of technology that we don't have a use for yet, but may become important later on. So we'll save this for later. Finally exploring the last room in the northwestern corner we have to pick the door and inside, aside from all of the water chips, we find a crate on the ground with five TV dinners and five boxes of noodles. There's a wall safe in the bathroom and inside we find an empty hypodermic, some radix and a cosmetics case. With floor two of voltage explored, we can head back to the elevator and take it down to floor three. Here we find all of their computers and last, we can get some answers. The room to the right appears to be a rec room, we see lots of tables and chairs in front of TVs, but there's nothing here. Moving to the library to the left, we find a number of computers but none of them have any relevant information on them. Our science skill tells us nothing. However moving into the room just left of this, we find another computer archive. We see one flickering terminal to the right and our Pipboy identifies this as a Vault City learning terminal. When we try to get some information from it, we tinker with the computer for a bit, but we learn that we have to use some scientific skill to actually get anything useful out of the terminal. So using science, we spend some time studying the computer archives and we gain 350 experience. We can repeat this, but if we do, we fail to learn anything new of importance. None of the other terminals in this room have any other interesting information. So heading east, we can next explore a supply room, the door is locked, but if we pick it, we find a number of containers, and the first truck, we find dynamite, and the second truck, we find a Geiger counter, and the first locker, we find our first aid manual and a first aid kit, and the second locker. Two empty hypodermic needles and two stim packs. In the third locker, one radix, one rad away, and two antidotes. In the fourth locker, one tool, a sledgehammer, and one crowbar, and in the final locker, a coil of rope, and two more flares. There are two foot lockers hiding against the southern wall, but they're both empty. With the storage room explored, we can move to the eastern door. Inside, we can head north and pick the lock on a door to yet another storage room. Here we find a foot locker against the northern wall, inside a 10mm pistol, and more 10mm ammunition, armor piercing, and jacketed hollow point. And the next one, we find a 10mm SMG, and again, more ammunition. In the locker to the right of this, we find 10 flame thrower fuel, and two hand grenades. This is almost an overwhelming amount of loot we're getting. We'll have to laden up all of our companions. When done looting, we can finally talk with the guy who's been slinking around in this room, Martin. Whoa, ah, says Martin. Whoa, is he there? The chosen one can say. Yeah, yeah, you nearly scared the life out of me, he says. Sorry we can say, didn't mean to startle you. That's okay. It's just not many people come into the vault. What does it you do here, Martin? Just keep an eye on things and storage down here. Make sure all the doors stay locked. Do you have a key we can ask? And he says, uh-huh. Doesn't matter, because most doors are jammed shut anyway. What do you store down here we can ask? Spare parts, supplies, and a ore. Or we didn't find any ore. And he says, a ore from redding. Not so much anymore, he says. Oh, I see. And that's why we haven't found any. Why don't you get much more ore from redding anymore we can ask? And he says, don't know. McClure is really worried about it. Can you tell me where the central computer is we can ask? And he says, it's just over there. It's the-talking computer. And that's all Martin can do to help us. But as we walk to the computer, Martin begins to sing. Maybe you'll think of me. And you're all alone. Fans of all at once should recognize that as the opening song to Fallout 1 by the ink spots sounds like Martin's a fan. We find the primary vault computer in a small computer room south of the overseer's seat. We see a computer terminal and it appears to be engaged in some sort of diagnostic routine. You have logged onto the vault city central computer. The interface seems relatively easy to understand. Everything seems to be broken down into archives. We can search the archives for the location of Vault 13. The archives list only two vaults. Vault 8, this vault, and Vault 15. Located to the south. Oddly enough, there's no mention of Vault 13. And so all we can do is enter Vault 15's location onto our Pip-Boy. But how could this be? We know there was a Vault 13. We have the water flask. Embley isn't with the number of the Holy 13. Well, maybe we can find its location from Vault 15. Next, we can search for any references to the Garden of Eden Creation Kit. And we read as we already knew that there's no longer a Geck in stock at Vault City. The people of Vault City used the only one they had to help establish the place when they came to the surface. From what we make out in the archives, two Gecks were part of every vault's standard inventory package. But only one was shipped to Vault 8. Due to a shipping error, it appears Vault 8 received a box of surplus water chips intended for another vault. The other vault, most likely received Vault 8's second Geck. So it didn't know the location of Vault 13. But at least we got the location of Vault 15. We'll have to head there to see if from Vault 15 we can finally get the location of Vault 13. But while we're here, we can insert the HoloDisc that we got from Festus in our last episode into the computer. And if we do reading disk, reactor data, atomic power, plant efficiency, 43%, 75%, error, plant calibration. A bunch of gibberish, do you wish to optimize? We can begin the optimization procedure, beginning optimization procedure, optimizing, optimization complete. Please remove the disk. And that's everything we can do at this terminal. But as we're about to log off and walk away, we suddenly notice a small picture of a pit boy located beneath the terminal. Next to the picture is a slot that looks about the size of our pit boy. We can insert our pit boy into the empty slot, and a small window opens up on the terminal screen with a smiling pit boy next to it. As we watch, the pit boy starts whistling silently and tapping his feet. A red light is flashing beside the computer slot. We can wait, then, and unhealthy grinding noise comes from the pit boy slot. The pit boy continues to whistle silently and tap his feet. We can continue to wait. The pit boy suddenly stops and frowns. An exclamation mark appears above his head, and he starts wagging his finger at us. We can try to determine what's wrong, or we can give the little guy a finger right back. A small display beneath the pit boy states that our last scheduled maintenance was 50,352 years ago. The archives are corrupted and need to be reformatted. Do we wish to proceed? Reformatted? Well, no. No way. But no matter what we choose, initializing procedure beginning, reformatting the pit boy. Hey, give me my dog on pit boy back. Northern California Geographical Archive is being copied into pit boy database. Building Archive, Broken Hills, Gecko, New California Republic, New Reno, Reading, Vault City, Download Complete. With that, the computer ejects our pit boy from the slot, and we can take a look at it to make sure it's not harmed. Everything looks fine, but we do find one new piece of data, the Vault City Travel Log. Vault City Northern California Travel Log. Warning, if Vault citizens find it necessary to travel outside of Vault City, they should keep the following list of items on their person, a supply of pre-packaged Vault City issue rations, never eat any food offered by an outsider, as you introduce bacteria or radioactive particles into your system. A Geiger counter, always be certain to monitor ambient radiation levels wherever you travel. At least two STEM packs at all times, the slightest cut or nick could introduce harmful bacteria into your system. Reading. Small mining community located west of Vault City. Reading trades gold ore for medical supplies from Vault City. All Vault citizens are encouraged to exercise extreme caution when traveling inside Reading, as the provincial miners are not strongly governed. Population. A census is unavailable, but Reading is believed to have hundreds of residents, government, mayor and town council. Background radiation count, current readings are unavailable. Transportation rate unknown, believed low. New Reno. City southwest of Vault City. Trades gold ore for medical supplies from Vault City. Reno suffered little structural damage during the Great War, though looting and property damage have taken their toll, so many streets and buildings remain intact. Warning, there is no central government, and no law enforcement. Gambling, prostitution and chemists are rampant. Vault citizens are warned to avoid new Reno at all costs. Population, no current census, but believed to be several thousand people. Government, new Reno presently exists in a state of near-anarchy. According to reports, several crime families have divided the city amongst themselves. Background radiation count, current readings are unavailable. Mutation rate unknown, believed low. New California Republic. The territories of NCR are located far to the south of Vault City. Its mechanical equipment, gold, and various surplus products in exchange for Vault City medical technology. NCR has recently stepped up efforts to absorb Vault City as a border territory. So Vault citizens should exercise extreme caution when traveling to NCR. Population, though a census has been conducted, we do not have access to the figures. NCR is believed to have many tens of thousands of people, government, president and a congress. Background radiation count, current readings are unavailable. Mutation rate varies amongst territories. Broken Hills, a mining community to the south of Vault City that mines uranium ore. The ore is traded to Vault City in exchange for medical supplies, mostly radics and redaway. Humans are believed to be forced to live with mutants and ghouls within the town. Due to the nature of the inhabitants and the high probability of contamination, Vault citizens should avoid broken hills at all costs. Population, no current census, but believed to be in the hundreds of residents. Government. Rumor has it a mutant serves as the first citizen of this community. This is extremely unlikely, as most mutants are incapable of higher reasoning. If this rumor is true, it is another reason to avoid broken hills altogether. Background radiation count, current readings are unavailable, believed high. Mutation rate believed high. Human Hills most likely has a high rate of degenerative mutations. Vault City This utopia is free from crimes and other sociological ills that inflict the other communities in Northern California. It has existed independent since its emergence from Vault 8 and maintains a thriving economy based on exporting medical technology to outsider communities in Northern California. All citizens are encouraged to remain in Vault City whenever possible. Formation, current census, 103 citizens. Government, first citizen and council, background radiation count, files have been deleted. Missing the following strings, gecko, groundwater, contamination. So they don't want their own citizens to know exactly how much radiation is in Vault City. Mutation rate, files have been deleted. Missing the following strings, birth rate. Well with no one being born in Vault City, I guess it would be hard for them to track mutations. And that's all the information we get from the mainframe terminal here in Vault 8. Now we need to deliver the optimization data for Gecko's power reactor to Festus. But on our way, we pass by the clinic in the Vault City court chart. And it's then, we remember the blueprints for the subdermal implants we got inside Vault 8. We fix the auto dock here. Well if anyone could do subdermal implants, it's an auto dock. Starting inside we can talk with Andrew. Well looks like you've seen some serious action, friend. You here to get patched up? Actually we can say, I found some combat implant schematics in the Vault City medical database. Could you perform the operation? And he says combat implants? What do you mean? Well according to the schematics I saw we can say, you can graft dermal plates and dermal dissipators into a person's skeleton using the following procedure. We then hand him over the plants and he says, huh. Well I suppose with help from the old doctor I could do that operation. Of course I need some impact plates and dissipators first. Might be able to price some out of a suit of combat armor if you can find one. If we come back to him with a suit of combat armor in our inventory, we can say, I've got a suit of combat armor right here. Can you give me the information on some of the implants? And he says, hey, you're serious then I see. Well now this is a risky venture. The citizens find out that I'm using the old doctor for this and they'll take it right back. I see we can say, but how much for the implants? And he says depends on what you want. You want low impact high impact low thermal or high thermal. Each one's got its price tag. Well we'll start basic for now and find out about the low impact implant. Standard dermal impact armor he says takes the kick out of most explosions, punches, kicks, stuff like that. I'll take 5% only to strip some combat armor for the plates and it'll take two days to do the graphs. $7,000 on a coverate. $7,000 we can say? Who that's deep? Uh, $5,000 is all I've got. And if we pass a burger check Andrew says, well that sounds fair. Alright, let me just bulge into the old doctor here. Hope the anesthesia reservoir isn't clogged again. Be a better bite down on this piece of brahmen hide just in case. With that, a couple of days go by and he says, well they're in I guess. About the swelling and soreness, I'm pretty sure that both are just temporary side effects. Oh, that stabbing sensation you feel when you move your arms and legs, that should fade in a few weeks. And the chosen one can say, Frank, Frank, bro, bar. With that, we get the dermal impact armor perk. This perk gives us a 5% damage resistance against normal ballistic damage and explosive damage. Because these implants are so expensive, I made a second character, gave him a bunch of money and beefed up his stats just so that I could record this footage. But for my real character in my primary gameplay, I haven't been able to afford these perks yet. But let's continue going through each of them if we have more combat armor we can go back for the high impact implant. And he says, well technically, high impact is standard dermal impact armor with extra assault issue impact plates crammed under your skin. So says the chosen one, you're gonna need the basic dermal graft first. And he says, well I'm gonna need another set of combat armor to get the extra assault plates. Good thing is, the plates will double the strength of the original grafts. So they'll absorb 10% of the kick. Except, yes, says the chosen one. It'll take a stretch, a few days at least, assuming the old doctor don't mess up, and it's expensive. $40,000 as I see it, plus, well, it ain't gonna help your looks none. How much will it hurt my looks we can ask? And he says, well you're gonna be all blocky looking when I'm done. Shoving all those plates in your body means your charisma's gonna take a hit. You still game? I don't know, we can say $40,000 is pretty steep. I do have $30,000 on me though. And with that, we again spend a couple days in surgery and emerge swollen bruised and battered. Can you hear me, says Andrew? Whew, I didn't think there was any room left for those impact plates, but I was able to pry a lot of muscle tissue and cartilage out of the way. There are an inchar over there if you want to souvenir. With that, we get the dermal impact assault enhancement perk. This gives us 10% damage resistance against normal ballistic damage and explosive damage, but at the cost of minus one to our charisma. Heading back to Andrew, we can ask for the low thermal implant. And he says, the phoenix implants take the bite out of fire, lasers, and plasma burns. About 5%. I'll need to strip some combat armor for the thermal membranes and it'll take two days for the operation. $10,000 ought to cover it. Eh, $10,000 a bit out of my league. How about $8,000? We can say a few days go by and he says, Mercy, that was a trial and error surgery if I ever saw it. I ended up having to amputate some of your nerve endings. That's the burning and itching sensation you're feeling right now. It'll probably fade in a few weeks. With that, we get the phoenix armor implants perk, which grants us plus 5 damage resistance against energy weapons, plasma, laser, and fire. The final implant he can give us is the high thermal implant. He says, well, I'm going to need to scavenge the thermal dissipators from another set of combat armor. Good thing is, the dissipators will double the thermal resistance, absorbing 10% of the bite. But yes, we can say. It's going to make your skin blister, he says. Bad. You'll look a lot like that bubbling pre-war packaging material, so don't expect to be getting too many dates after this, and it's going to cost you $50,000 up front. $40,000 in its a deal we can barter, and what that a couple days go by. I hope to heaven you can hear me right now. Look, when you regain feeling in your extremities, you'll feel an incredible itching sensation all over. Don't scratch it. If you do, those pus crusts over the drainage incisions will burst in scar. Give them a few weeks to heal, okay? And with that, we get the phoenix assault enhancement perk, which grants us plus 10% damage resistance to energy weapons. Plasma laser and fire. But it also costs us one charisma point. Those are all really expensive, so I think I'm going to pick up those implants at another time. Instead, we need to head back to Gecko to turn in the optimization data holotape to Festus. Thanks for getting the data we needed from Vault City to optimize this leaky old beast, he says. You're a sly one. No denying it by a cracky. Just as good a job as I could have done myself. Of course, if you want to actually finish the dang job, just use that disc on the robot control terminal. Understand me? Well, okay then. Wow, Festus really doesn't want to do any work himself. Well, I didn't like leaving the job only half done. Goodbye Festus, we can say. It looks like it's up to us. Heading back to the reactor control room, we can sidestep Hank and use the optimization data on the control terminal. If we do, we learned that the optimization procedure was successful, and we gained 2,500 experience. We can finish up things here in Gecko by going back to Gordon, the guy who originally gave us the holotape to download the optimization data from Vault City. And he says, thanks for fixing our atomic power plant. The next step in old Gordon of Gecko's plan is working nicely. Greed is a wonderful thing. You should be proud to be part of this idea. The chosen one can say, Greed is good, right Gordon? Well, I've got plans of my own to work on. Goodbye. And this is the last bit of evidence we need to realize that Gordon here, and possibly the entire name of Gecko, is a reference to Gordon Gecko from the film Wall Street. The point is ladies and gentlemen, that Greed for lack of a better word is good. Now we have to head south to find Vault 15, and hope that we don't get sidetracked along the way. I publish many videos each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss the next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxworn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wider ray of colors. You can find them on other products as long like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon. With more brand new videos.