In our last episode, we arrived at Nureno. Our first stop was the Cass Pa, that was a memorable experience. And then we visited the Desperado Casino, the headquarters of the Mordino Crime Family. After having an audience with Big Jesus Mordino, he sent us as a courier to the Stables. He wanted us to deliver a package but would not tell us what it was. We heard from rumor on the streets that the Stables is where the Mordino family was keeping their goose that lays the golden eggs. My run, the creator of jet, and so heading to the Stables, we can deliver our package and then nose around a bit. You know, see what's up. Upon arrival we find two buildings, one to the left and one to the right. We all start by exploring the one to the left. We see two armed guards standing outside. Look, I hate your compadre, it says one. So don't be talking to me no more. But they must know that we're on a mission for the boss. They have no objection to us opening the gate. On the other side we can open a garage door to arrive at the Stables. But inside the Stables we just see people. There's a guy in a lab coat walking around. If you have any suggestions, please write it on a piece of paper and then put it right in the trash bin over there. He says, the people appear to be, um, well in another world. One brushes the way of flies. A bunch of them, Giggle, one says, Hunk, me bad, me good, me bad, me good. One snorts like a pig, another says, Hoochie, Koochie, Boochie. Okay, these guys are all hopped up on something. We see a guy in a black outfit in the middle of the Stables. He looks up as we approach and he sneers. You're looking for trouble homes? You remeer as we can say? Big Hazeus gave me this package to give to you. He takes the box, about time. We run an almost out of jet. He sniffs and then cough slightly. Can't imagine where it all goes. Eh? And the chosen one can perceptively say, judging by your jet cough and the way you're rubbing your nose, I am at a loss to say we're all of the jet delivered here goes. Big J, see? He says, takes care of us, eh? Just last week, I got three slaves who was dumb enough to run. So I get some rewards, see? Heh. And you ain't got key wrap. You just bend and fetch. Me? I'm a guard. And the chosen one can say, I wonder if Big Hazeus realizes how three slaves might have escaped under the noses of such perceptive jet-reliant guard such as yourself. And remeer is blanks and goes, eh? What you say? I said. And then the chosen one can repeat himself. Remeer is blanks and then smiles in confusion. Eh? Yeah, yeah. I'm sharp, see? Perceptive. I'm a guard, right? And we have two ways to end the conversation. We can say, boy am I glad someone had the wisdom to give you all automatic weapons. Makes me feel safe. Later Ramirez or we can say, yeah, you mentioned that before. If I were you Ramirez, I'd do all of humanity a favor and take that entire box of jet all at once. See ya. Looks like at least this guard is taking the same jet as all of the other people in these stables. But what is with all of the people in the stables? They are being attended to by scientists. One of them cries silently. If we open a garage door in the back of the room, Ramirez doesn't mind. He's too drugged out of his mind. We arrive in a bit of a lab. We see scientists around an operating table covered in blood. We won't be able to keep the results if you keep interrupting us. One says, too busy to talk right now. Sorry. Says the other. Get myren up here. He has to see this. Says the third. The bald woman doesn't even look up from her clipboard. Yes, she says, who are you? We can ask. And she says, look, I'm very busy. So if you don't mind, she glances up from her clipboard at us and then scowls. Who are you? How did you get here? We can say, your barn doors open. Get it? I kill me. In which case, she ends the conversation, runs away screaming, guards, guards, detain this person. But in my game, Ramirez never came. Maybe he was too hopped up on chat. Or we can say, oh, I'm one of the new personnel assigned here. And she says, more guards? Ha! As if they do any good. Look, you should have received instructions from whomever sent you here. Talk to the other guards to find out your assignment. Now go. But we can say, I'm not a guard. I'm one of the new researchers. Do you have an assignment for me? And she says, your researcher? Hmm, I've never seen you before. How much do you know about pharmaceutical research? If our science skill is high enough, we can say, I know a fair amount about the composition and media factor of base neurochemical compounds. And I think I could be of some assistance in your studies. She says, hmm, all right then. Let me give you a rundown on what we do here. We test the effects and potency of a metanphetamine called jet. I see we can say, and how is the research coming? Not so well, she says. Our schedule is tight. And we need to purify the jet-menufactoring process soon. Why we can ask? Jet seems habit-forming enough already. And she says it's potent enough, but there's room for improvement. The brass wants to increase jet distribution and redding, and they want the reliance rate as close to 100% as we can get it. It's going to require us pulling some long hours. What's the deal with redding we can ask? And she says, hook the miners and redding to jet, and whoever controls the jet controls redding. Typical power play. So who does control the cams? We can ask. And she says, who controls the cams? The more denos, of course. Myron laid all the groundwork for Jet's composition. We do mostly cleanup work. Is Myron your boss? We can ask? And she says, you could call it that. He's a smart one. I'll give him that. But he doesn't care much about what goes on up here. He mostly stays in the basement vault. No visitors, except for the train of prostitutes. Typical project leader. Could I see him we can ask? And she says, I suppose so. Let me give you a temporary badge. Just show it to the guards. Keep it quick, though. Myron doesn't like people staying locked. And if we play a female chosen one with high enough charisma, she adds, though he may make an exception in your case. Thanks for the badge, we can say. I'll see you later. Or instead of passing the science check, we can pass a charisma check to say, excuse me, but I was hoping you could show me around. I saw you standing over here and felt compelled to talk to you. Perhaps after the tour we could have dinner? And if we play a female chosen one, she says, look, I am very busy. So if you could please excuse me. And she walks away. But if we play a male chosen one with high charisma, she says, this, I am very flattered. But I'm also very busy at the moment. So, uh, well, the chosen one can interject. Do you mind if I came by and picked up after work then? No pressure, just some dinner, some conversation. You look like someone who might need to take a little break from work. Things here must keep you very busy. And she says, oh, not that busy. Well, no, pretty busy. I mean, mostly it's routine chem testing, and occasionally we have a slave go over the edge. If we become judgmental here and say, doesn't purposefully injecting experimental metamphetamines into enslaved humans make you question your basic humanity? She says, was that some poor attempted joke? And we can respond just asking. I mean, what if you had been sold into slavery, been taken here, then pumped full of cams? And she says, I am on this side of the stalls. They're on that side. Since we're getting at a hypotheticals, would you like to find out what it's like to be there? We have an extra stall or two. Now, hold on a minute, we can say, but she again calls for the guards. And this time Ramirez runs forward. Or instead of judging her for enslaving human beings, we can say, wow, that sounds dangerous. Do you ever get hurt? Do you have many patient fatalities? She says, slave deaths? A few, mostly accidental overdoses, usually a text fault, or a self-inflicted injuries. Some ingest too much jet, and they really want to fly. And from here on, we find the same dialogue tree we found earlier that got us the pass. But if neither our science skills nor charisma skills are high enough to allow us to talk our way through, the only option we have when she asks us if we have any scientific experiences to say, uh, enough, just sit back and watch me go. But she doesn't buy it. Ha, she says, I think I'll just watch you go period. Leave before I call the guards. Well, I'm looking for Myron. You see around, we can say? And she says, try downstairs in the lab, the guarded door. If you see him, tell him to come up here when he has the chance. If he is not too busy. Now, unless we pass the science or charisma check, we walk away from this conversation without the pass key. However, we can always steal it from her. And maybe some intense. With the pass key in hand, we can climb the nearby ladder down to the bottom level. We arrive in a room filled with boxes. But they are all empty. We see a path off to the east and a door to the south. Heading south first, we find two armed guards guarding the locked door. Help you with something, amigo. This area is off limits, he says. Off limits, we can say, what's behind that door? And he sneers. Sorry, need to know bases. Now get lost, amigo. I'm here to see Myron. And he says, oh, you are, are you? Well, Da-Gon, why didn't she say something earlier? We could have avoided this talk altogether. And I could have told you to piss off right from the start. But Myron's expecting me. We can say, you better let me see him or you'll hear about it later. Nah, he says, now piss off before you make me angry. To gain access, we have to choose, I'm here to see Myron. And I have a badge. Yeah, he says, let me see. Hmm, he checks the badge and shrugs. All right, but keep it quick. Myron's busy. And he don't like being disturbed. Got it, we can say. And with that, we can access the door. Go on in, everything's cool, he says. And in the middle of the next room, we find a young boy, like a teenager. Our pit boy describes him as Myron. Myron, baby, Myron. Who are you? Now the hell'd you get in here? Where are those jackass guards? Oh, I used this badge. Marjorie sent me. So, who are you? Spill it or I'll have the guards beat it out of you. You Myron? Maybe. Who the hell are you? Oh, I'm Oxorn. Oh, that's so. Oh, I hear. Huh? So you could hit Myron up for some free drugs? Cams? Like what? He's stupid. Jetmotherfucker. Jet. Here, talking to its maker. It's creator. It's God. You may jet? No way. That stuff is making a killing on the streets. Damn right, I did. I make the shit everybody wants and can't get enough of. Tell me about this place. Stables? Are we testing new kinds of jet here? What about it? Tell me about the Mordino family. They're my patrons. They're all right. I guess. Tell me about jet. Ah, my finest little addiction. What about it? How did you create it? Uh, in my lab. Next question? No, no, no, no. Not where did you create it? How did you create it? Ha, you wouldn't understand. It's way above you. Yeah, I guess an idiot like me couldn't be expected to understand the process of manufacturing a hallucinogenic amphetamine hybrid like jet, huh? Yeah. Why? You gonna try and prove me wrong, pal? Sure. Try me. I've forgotten more about pharmaceutical research than you'll ever know. Look, how did you develop it, smart guy? Christ. Well, when I came across the Mordino family way back when they were farming Pioti cacti and trying to sell it to tourists as the Reno experience. Total bullshit. Go on. I mean, Pioti? Come on. It isn't even half the strength of, say, old school LSD. Uh, about the jet. Plus, a Pioti trip is too long. A profits and fast turnaround in high addiction, like, uh, barbituits before the big one, you know? You mean barbituits like old school, cocaine, crank, all that? Right. Can I finish? Fine. Fine. What was the problem with making barbituits? Problem is, in the new climate, we can't grow most of the veggies needed for the best drugs. You mean veggies as in cocoa plants, opium poppies, that sort of thing? Right, Sherlock, and we tried. So we figured our best bet was shrooms. Why? You can grow them if you use plenty of brahminshit as fertilizer. Speaking of plenty of crap, go on. Plus, hallucinogens of low overhead. So I start experimenting with the rivitives of Lissurja gasadyathlamide and psilocybin. Still... Still? Still? I really wanted to whip up a hard hitter that didn't rely on vigy extracts. Man, was I an idiot? Because the answer turned out to be the extracts. Homeore precisely, what they were growing in. How do you mean? I see. Old Hesus Mordino wanted something that the redding miners were going to addicted too fast and make them work harder. So I said, no prob, right? Yeah, no prob. Well, wasn't too hard to come up with a good upper. Sample of that pre-war protein extract corrupted and bam! Decent and fetamine. Protein extract? Before the big one, some meat companies were experimenting with a cheap protein extract for growing food, but they had to ditch it. One little skin bacteria contaminated and it's all screwed. Screwed? How? The contaminated version acted like an infetamine when ingested. Little sad effect. Don't ask. It's uh... technical. So, did you somehow get a hold of this protein extract? I didn't have to. When they first screwed up, the contaminated tons of that shit. And rather the ditch it, they fed it to their Brahmin herds to try and recoup their losses. So the Brahmin crap is what you used to grow the hallucigen in? Very good. And that's all you're ever going to learn, pal. You want to know? You figured out. So you used Brahmin crap as fertilizer for the shrooms. Except the pre-war protein contamination gives whatever shrooms grown in Brahmin crap certain extra ingredients. Close. Yes? See, we started experimenting with the Brahmin shit as fertilizer for the shrooms. Except get this. Then we noticed the slaves working fertilizer vats were getting high from the fumes. So the fumes were enough to produce the effect? Right. I thought so. By putting tons of Brahmin shit in the vats, we found out that the fumes give more than enough of a kick. Eureka. Literally. Of course we had to test to get the mix right. Uh, how much testing exactly? That uh... Hundred slaves? Mostly heart attacks, cerebral hemorrhages, psychotic episodes. That sort of thing. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Are you insane? You killed a hundred human beings just for can testing? Well, not on purpose. I mean, slaves are expensive. Still, we made the money back in the first few months. Some Arduino family wasn't too pissed at me. Myron, you killed over a hundred human beings for the sake of can testing. Did you get your conscience lobotomized when you were a kid? You're getting bent at me over a bunch of slaves? Hey, we had to make sure Jed wouldn't kill our customers. So that's why we saw people in the stables above ground. The stables aren't for Brahmin cattle. The stables are for people. These slaves and the pens are Myron's test subjects. That's why they were all drugged out of their minds. Cut the crap, Myron. Is there any cure for Jed? How quaint. A cure. Sure. You go cold turkey. Of course, I made sure that was a real difficult option with Jed. Myron, you're a pretty smart fella. Consider it a challenge. What would it take to make a cure for Jed? Oh, for fuck's sake. Can't be done, all right? It's a goddamn drug, not a bacterial infection. It's basically a high habitual meta-emphetamine, right? Couldn't you use a nervous system suppressant to break the reliance? Nice try. No dice. Jed ain't blacked that easy. Once it's in your system, it ain't coming out. Then, with either an intelligence of seven and a science skill of 81 percent, or with intelligence of nine and science skill of 76 percent, we find an option to say, what about using some kind of endorphin blocker? That would repress the chemical and psychological addiction, wouldn't it? Queer ice that has got to be the dumbest. Well, well, maybe it would work, but I'm pretty sure Jed would just cure right through that shit. No, why the hell are we even talking about this? Where would you get your hands on endorphin blockers anyway? You tell me, Myron, you're a bright guy. Maybe, Vault City. They have a pretty good medical warehouse. A lot of old pre-Holocost bases also used to stock them to prevent combat drug addiction. Pre-Holocost bases? Where? Do I look like a photographer? You want to scour the desert form? You go right ahead. What about Vault City? You'd have better luck convincing a rad scorpion apart with its tail and get Vault City to give up anything. I see. You know what, Bullcrap? You didn't make jet. I did so make jet. Well, you think this lab is for show? All right, maybe you did make jet. Damn right, I did. I make the shit everybody wants and can't get enough of. Why did you make jet? Why? Because I could. Family Mordino needed a product. Myron makes a product. Mordino makes Myron happy. At least as happy as they're able. Nice little circle of love, huh? As happy as they're able, are you happy here? Pretty much. They give me horse, cash, drugs, my own lab. The creator freedom I need to make magic. But well, no, not. Good gig. Well, what? Are they treating you right? Well, see, the Mordinos don't show Myron the R-E-S-P-E-C-T, right? I tell them what they should be doing. They say, shit up Myron, or go back to the lab Myron bastards. Maybe I could help you. You want to ditch this town? Travel with me, and then the Mordinos will wake up to how valuable you are and quick. They've forgotten, I'm the reason they control Reno and the reason why Reading will be sucking to their tit in a few months. Most Mordinos got more hair in their butt than brain cells, you know what I'm saying? Wait, what was that stuff you were saying about Reading? Reading? Town full of gold diggers. Mordino wants to control it all. So it comes to me in his weezing voice and says, Myron, Myron, make me something that'll give me Reading. And you say? And I say, okay, what time frame we're looking at? He goes, of course, yesterday. Crime lords, when everything done fast and sloppy, at least they don't have a marketing department. Ah, that was actually really clever. You're definitely too valuable to be here, Myron. You should leave, like I was saying. And another thing, the Mordinos can't get it through their skulls that I had interested in purifying jet. It does what it's supposed to do. I want to make new drugs, not retooled ones, you know? Well, I can help you, Myron. Why don't you ditch this town, travel with me, and then the Mordinos will wake up to how valuable you are? Hmm. They're boy wonder, leaving town. They'd wake them up. Yeah. Sure would. I'd make them see what they'd really lost. I like that. Wait, hold on a minute. What can you do, Myron? I can't just have anyone traveling with me. I got standards. What? You need Myron's resume? I'm the science guy. No, all see all. Not to mention I can make whatever drugs you need. With the right raw materials. All right, then come with me. You look full up. And she ditches the tribal. Looks like he takes me in a bonehead too seriously. We get that option if we have too many members in our party. But if we don't, he says, well, hell not. Let's blow this popsicle stand. And the chosen one can say, it's 106 miles to a rollo. We got a full fusion cell, half a pack or right away. It's midnight and I'm wearing a 50 year old vault 13 jumpsuit. Let's hit it. This is of course her reference to the famous scene in Blues Brothers. It's 106 miles to Chicago. We got a full tank of gas, half a pack of cigarettes. It's dark and we're wearing sunglasses. Hit it. And with that Myron, Myron, baby Myron joins our party as the science guy and we can talk with him to see what he can do. Yeah, what? Can't you see him thinking here? I had some questions. Yeah, what's on your mind? Can you make any cams? Can I make drugs? I'm Myron. What do you need? I need an antidote for some rad scorpion venom. I'm gonna need some rad scorpion venom sacks first. Ironic in it. And when we get him some, it shouldn't be too hard. How many bottles of antidote you want? Give me two. Done. Here you go. Can you make any other cams? Hey, you can't get enough, huh? What do you need? Some jet. Sorry. Ain't got the raw materials I need. Don't really want to get him either. Yeah, considering the raw materials is brawman crap, I can understand why he doesn't want to handle it. And for that reason, he can't make a jet for us. So instead we can say, I need some stem packs. Sorry, we just think out what I need to whip up a stem. Let's see. Yeah, you'll need some sand eroute, some rock flower and an empty hypo. And by rock flower, I think he must have meant rock flower. Interesting mistake for a science guy to make, but when we come back to him with those ingredients, piece of cake. How many packs you want? Or sometimes he says, no, hey, genius. Ever cross your mind that it might be easier just to stay out of trouble, huh? Okay, how many? Just one thanks. There, that's it. No more that shit, all right? Next time go find some backwater medicine man to do it. And if we have an intelligence of eight at a science skill of 76% or greater, we find an option to say, can you make super stem packs? Of course I could, except we ain't got what I need. Some of that mutated fruit for the citric acid, a splash of nukakola and a normal stem pack. And when we come back to him with all of the ingredients, repeat after me. Myron's a genius. How many packs you want? Just one done. Here you go. And that is really the only reason to have Myron around. He's rubbish at combat. Though on his inventory, he does carry a rare and surprisingly powerful weapon, a needler pistol. And of course, he's also carrying jet and Jimmy hats. Nice. Hey, what weapons are you skilled with Myron? Any? Beats me. Yeah, the game is well aware that he's not a very good battle companion. But inspecting his weapon in our inventory, you suspect this bring him a needler pistol was once used for scientific field studies. It uses small hard plastic hypodermic darts as ammo. Minimum strength 3 uses the HN needler cartridge. And examining it next to my HNKG11, it's really impressive. It deals between 12 and 24 damage with a range of 24. That already makes it a pretty powerful weapon. But what's really interesting is that the armor piercing ammo for this weapon does double the weapon's damage, functioning unlike any other armor piercing ammunition in the game. When using AP rounds, it has the same maximum critical damage as the gauze pistol. The thing that makes the needler pistol frustrating is that the ammunition is really rare. Myron isn't the only person to wield this weapon. We can also get it off of Earl Marion at Redding and in a few other places that we have yet to explore. Myron is pretty useless, but he's hilarious. If we ask him to wait, excuse me, wait for you here? Are you kidding? Tell me you're kidding. Afford, get us at anything. You can stay. How so what was that like, travel humor? Yeah, hardy, hard hard, pretty fucking funny. Actually, stay right here. I'll be back. Don't sweat it. Oh, are you fucking serious? Whoa, whoa, hey, you keep me around. I'll do your favor. What do you say? Like what kind of favor? Could be I know one of more denos little stashes in Golgotha outside of Reno. Lots of chips, lots of drugs. Just gotta keep me around. Interesting. Looks like we'll have to pay a visit to Golgotha soon. Okay, Myron, you can stay. Or we can say forget favors. Now wait here. You annoy me and past. Okay, okay, wait here. You could show me a little more respect, you know. I am Myron. Now, as we learned from the prostitutes at the Katz Pa, Myron here is a bit of, well, a big pervert. Because of this, he has a completely different way of speaking if the chosen one is a woman with high charisma. Or if the chosen one has the porn star title. So for kicks, let's go through this conversation again as a woman with high charisma. Why hello there, beautiful. What can Myron do to, for you? Easy there, Tiger. Keep those hormones in, check. You, Myron? Say, you want a more deno's new horse or just a big fan of Myron. Oh, you got a name to go with those legs, beautiful. I'm just a traveler passing through. Whatever, beautiful. Want some drugs to break the ice or should we just get down to some mattress dancing? I would, but I don't have 10 seconds to spare right now. What, Kems, are you talking about? You have heard of Jett, beautiful? Well, you're talking to its maker. It's creator. It's God. Is there a cure for Jett, Myron? Beautiful. Look, this is drug addiction, not an STD. Only curious to go cold turkey. And that's a real difficult option with Jett. And from Heronia's pretty much the same dialogue as with a male chosen one. But when he joins our party, he treats a female chosen one with high charisma very differently. So, you finally wise up, beautiful. Finally realize it, I'm the only one for you. There are a number of really clever responses the chosen one can say, including Myron, your hand is the only one for you. Kenya, make me an antidote for Red Scorpion Venom. Oh, well, I'd love to, beautiful. But I need Red Scorpion tails. Oh, well. Hey, put that weapon away before you hurt yourself. This weapon? Oh, sorry about that, beautiful. It just seems to pop out all the time, you know. And a female chosen one can have a great response, and I heard it goes off prematurely too. No, now let's go. Hey, Myron, keep close to me. Whatever you say, gorgeous. Spread out a bit, Myron. It's best for both of us. Do I have to be or something? Sheesh. Put a little distance between us, Myron. All right, I'll just watch your ass. Uh, uh, back. Carefully. Strangely enough, if we take Myron to the Cats' Pond to get him laid, even though the hookers complained a lot about him before we even met him in our last episode, they really don't put up any objections here. When Miss Kitty asks which of our companions to service, we can say this little pervert Myron here and her price is 703 chips. Pretty high, but not as high as Lenny. But the girls don't say much on site of what we heard them say in our last episode, but our companions cheer him on, the chosen one whistles, and both Sulacan Cassidy give him a round of applause. And if at any point we decide to talk with Senior Mordino with Myron in our party, as soon as Senior Mordino sees him, he says, you're more Dino glairs at Myron as he enters, black lightning flashing in his eyes. You have left your post. You're used to me. His at an end. He makes a motion, and his guards reach for their weapons. With that, Senior Mordino and every Mordino thug in the Desperado turn hostile. I guess Senior Mordino's thought process is if we can't have Myron, no one. So unless you want to turn the entire Mordino family hostile, don't come to the Desperado with Myron in your party. This whole thing is really creepy, considering Myron is a child. This is confirmed if we try to kill Myron. If we do, we get the child killer title creepy. That's right, he is after all a boy genius, and the Mordino family gives him horrors, and we find him with Jimmy hats in his pockets, and we can get him laid at the cat spa. I guess Mordel's got the window in a post-apocalypse. But if we passed the Intelligence and Science checks with Myron to learn about Endorphin blockers, we can finally head back to Dr. Troy at Vault City to talk about an antidote for Jett. Do you have any Endorphin blockers we can ask? And he says Endorphin blockers, whatever for. And we can say I think Endorphin blockers could be used to neutralize Jett once it's in someone's system. I can't test it without Endorphin blockers though. And he says we don't have Endorphin blockers but I could program the auto-doc to manufacture some. Would you care to explain to me your theory? And we can relate to him what Myron confirmed to us. Well, you see, we can say Jett's chemical reliance is probably the hardest thing to shake. So I was thinking that if we introduced Endorphin blockers into the body, we could... and we explain it to him. I'm speechless, says Dr. Troy. That's simply the most brilliant solution I have ever heard. I've been experimenting with methods of curing Jett reliance for months and have come up with nothing. You've been working on an antidote too then we can say. And he says yes and unsuccessfully, this chem stranglehold needs to be stopped before it can spread. Why? With the information you've provided, we could manufacture the antidote today. Hold on. Great. Thanks Dr. we can say. And he says good news. I was able to use the information you gave me to make an antidote. Once taken, it nullifies Jett's withdrawal symptoms and also removes the euphoria associated with the chem. We can ask for some and then optionally say I think it could help the people in redding. Of course, says Dr. Troy. Here you go. Take it to one of my colleagues Dr. Johnson in redding. He should be able to see that it gets to those who need it. Then with the antidote in hand, we can head all the way back to redding and hand it over to painless Dr. Johnson. I think I have a solution for the Jett problem that you have here we can say. And he says a solution. What do you mean? I mean that I have an antidote to Jett. Dr. Troy in Vault City made it and it should solve the Jett reliance problem you have here. Dr. Troy he says I know him. A wonderfully talented physician. We worked together when I was in Vault City. Tell me about this antidote. You worked in Vault City we can say? And he says yes. That's where I received my medical training. I'm a Vault City citizen. I found that there are many places in the world that need my medical expertise more than Vault City. So here I am. Now about that antidote. We can say Dr. Troy said that I should bring the antidote to you and that's you'd know what to do with it. Indeed I will, he says. Let me have it then. Not so fast Doc we can say what's it worth to you? And he says what's it worth to me? Why you little whizelayata? Easy there Doc. That kind of talk makes me feel so bad that I get all shaky. I could drop things like this antidote bottle. And he says okay you've got me. I'll give you a 2000 bucks for it. That's all I've got. I guess that'll do we can say okay. Here it is Doc. Thank you he says. I'll make sure the miners get a little something extra with an expatch of jet that they pick up. Aren't they going to be suspicious of you Doc we can ask? And he says not really. I guess they're so used to me processing the bulk batches of jet into user ampules that they haven't even thought twice about it. I've been doing it for quite a while before this and I've been a doctor here for a long time. Good we can say I bet things would get ugly if they ever suspected. Now unlike many of the blackmail options we get in the game asking for money by threatening to destroy the antidote doesn't reduce the amount of experience we get and we don't lock ourselves out of any of Doc Johnson's dialogue or services in the future. So there's really no reason to not ask for the money. And by completing this quest we earned 2500 experience but this does permanently alter the ending of Reading and it's not the best one but we'll get into the ending slides a bit later. Just bear that in mind before deciding whether or not to complete this quest. Back at the stables after talking with Myron and optionally taking him on as a companion we can inspect his lab. On one of his tables we find some HN Needler cartridges. This is the very rare ammunition for his pistol. One of the few places in the game we can find some. We also find some Chet and more Chet and an empty needle in the next table. Heading down to the room to the south we find a Katzpa in a bookshelf of course and a big book of science. On a shelf against the southern wall of this room we find a needle and then we find a Stim pack on a table in the middle of this room. There's a desk in the lower left hand corner of this room which has more Needler ammunition and the extremely rare armor piercing ammunition. More empty needles and a Jimmy hats. The small room to the southwest is empty. Heading to the room with the two guards we find a couple of lockers. It's hard to pick these and get away with it but if we do in one we find some 45 caliber ammunition, money and shotgun shells. Heading out and moving east we find a cage and inside a bunch of dead slaves. Myron's insidious experimentation continues. There's a small room just to the east of this with two guards inside. The guards are guarding a footlock around the ground within which we find another Jimmy hats, some 10 millimeter ammunition and some money. Continuing east we walk past three large jet processing vats. God knows what these smell like and in the southeastern corner we find a final room with two more guards again guarding a footlocker and this one we find a combat knife, a fragmentation grenade, a yellow Jimmy hats, men they come in all shape sizes and colors, some 10 millimeter ammunition and some money. When done we can climb a ladder to the east. This brings us to another jet processing area. We see the Brahman herd producing the Brahman crap between these two buildings. If we inspect them our Pippoint tells us that they are regular domesticated Brahman but then strangely one is described as an ill tempered Brahman. If we use our doctor skill to try and figure out why this Brahman is so ill tempered we learn that there is something lodged in the Brahman's intestines but we fail to get a hold of it. We get this message if our doctor skill is too low. We can try this two more times but on the third time the Brahman turns hostile as do all the other Brahman in the herd. If however our doctor skill is high enough we pull out something that was lodged in the Brahman's intestines. We gain a hundred experience and the Brahman looks healthy. Inspecting our inventory it was a stack of 50 micro fusion cells. What do they feed these guys? Back to the second shack and moving south we find a couple of guards watching a bunch of slaves package up jet for shipment. I did my due diligence and inspected each and every one of these tables but don't bother they're all empty. After thoroughly exploring the stables we can head south to the exit grid. Now remember we teleported from the Desperado to the stables which means our car is back at New Reno so we do have to walk all the way back. Back in town we can return to the Desperado, head upstairs to check in with Senior Mordino. Have you done as I asked he says? Yes we can say. I gave your package to that guard Ramirez. You know that guy's a jet head? He was reeking of jet fumes. And Senior Mordino says not everyone at the stables knows they are test subjects. Uh come again we can say Ramirez let four slaves escape last month. He shakes his head slightly. That is not good. Within the hour the jet you gave Ramirez will stop his heart. It is punishment. We find a number of options to disapprove but that probably wouldn't be a good idea. So we'll say oh uh about my payment then and he nods. Very well. Here is your payment. A hundred chips for a simple delivery. It is more than enough. Thank you Senior Mordino. I have more work for you. I need someone he takes a deep wheezing breath than wipe sweat from his forehead to collect my percentage from the Corsican brothers. They are late in their payments. I will go their house in Newer Mordino. Head north up Virgin Street. They are across from the gym. If they give you trouble, if they make excuses, hurt them. Very well Senior Mordino. And with that we have a new task for the Mordino family. Heading downstairs we can leave the Desperado but when we walk south down Virgin Street we discover that our car is gone. Where's my car cries the chosen one? We had it parked right here in the parking lot. Where did our highway man go? We'll find out and punish those responsible in my next episode. I publish many Fallout videos each and every week so if you don't want to miss it, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. No dice. Celebrate! How difficult it is to get a perfectly preserved pie. This design comes on shirts and a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wide array of colors. You can find it on other items as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon. With more brand new videos.