My dripping I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. I'm not going to let you down. In our last episode, we worked with the NCR to confront the Kings. Finally putting an end to the violence being done against NCR citizens in the slums of Freeside. Our work with the NCR has so impressed the top brass that Colonel Cassandra Moore has requested an interview with us. And so we had to Hoover Dam to see exactly what the Colonel wants. We learned a little bit about her unique personality in our last video. But this interview will give us the opportunity to get to know the Colonel a bit better. We can find her in her office, but she likes to wander around a lot. We often find her in a lab, a room right next to her office. Good you made it. I've been receiving reports about the savior of the NCR for a while now and wanted to meet you myself. You've proven yourself especially capable. And right now I can use all the capable people I can get. Crocker gets handed the fluff missions that no one else wants to do. When people need something really important done, they come to me. Usually I dispatch one or more rangers to see these things through, but I'm a little short handed at the moment. Thank you for a real mission. Yes ma'am. Since the majority of my men are on assignment dealing with the Legion, I need someone to handle other matters that have arisen. Make no mistake, there's a battle coming. And I intend to make sure there are no loose ends when the time comes. One such loose end is a gang known as the Great Cons. Have you heard of them? Remind me. They're a rowdy bunch and pride themselves as warriors. The dark leather and horned helmets they wear are pretty distinctive. You could say we've had dealings. But then I don't need to tell you that they can be a pain in the ass. I have a score to settle with them. Good. That anger is something I can use. And I think you may get a chance to settle your score sooner than you might have planned. The NCR has a rather sorted history with them, and I'm concerned that we'll find them aiding our enemies when the Legion attack comes. That is, unless we get to them first. I want you to visit them in their canyons to the far west and make sure they're in no shape to join the Legion. They're just another gang of raiders as far as I'm concerned, so deal with them appropriately. Any questions? What if I find that they're committed to joining Caesar? Then you'll need to make sure none of them are left to do so. Any other questions? Oh, okay. Well, will I have any Instagram support on this? I can't lend you any troops, but I've already sent word to quartermaster Barden that you'd be given full access to our hardware. You'll have to pay for what you take, however. We can't afford to give away equipment. Did you have any other questions? So she'll give me troops to kill the kings, but none to kill the cons? One of the oldest raider gangs in the wasteland? Okay. Well, what if I can convince them not to join the Legion? Don't fool yourself. I've dealt with enough of these gangs to know that they can't be trusted. Was there anything else? No more questions, ma'am. Good. I look forward to hearing of your progress. Dismissed. Instead of heading out, now that we're working with Colonel Moore, we can try to learn some of her thoughts. Very well, but be brief. Hey, Colonel Moore, can you tell me about the NCR? I don't have time to discuss all the different aspects of the NCR with you, but if you wanted all in a nutshell, the NCR is progress. If you wander around the wasteland, you'll find all sorts of tribes, villages, and such, where people spend most of their time trying to survive. The NCR gives its citizens a shot at something more. We have laws, currency, health care, government, all the things that were lost. It's not perfect, but it's worth protecting, which is why we also have the largest military in existence. How did you get to be a Colonel in the NCR? I joined up at a young age. It was barely 16 when I left home and volunteered to be in the military. Got a few strange looks at first, but those stopped when I got top marks across the board during training and became an officer at 17. A few years went by, my squad helped take down gangs of raiders here and there, and one day an invitation to join the Rangers arrived. It's for the best years of my life. Doing something that truly matters, and having the freedom to handle it as you see fit. Then I got injured. Everyone was very supportive. I received a promotion to Colonel and given greater responsibility, but my days as a Ranger were over. A familiar story. So many NCR soldiers want to be a Ranger. Well, it sounds like you miss it. I do sometimes. There are days I'd give anything to be out in the open air, planting explosives and laying down covering fire. But here I am, stuck in the same stale office day after day, while other people get to do the actual fighting. But I'm sure you know that it's better to be in charge. Oh, it has its perks to be sure. I'm free to see that things on a large scale are done my way, and don't have to tolerate any disagreement. There's few people in a position to counter-man my orders only care about results, and in that regard I never leave them less than pleased. Yes, but sometimes there's more to the equation than just results, as we learned in our last episode, but regardless. Colonel, what can you tell me about Hoover Dam? It's a position of some strategic importance to the NCR, providing power and water as it does. It's moderately defensible, with a single point of entry on the east side. To get to the power plants below, the enemy has to cross the entire top. The legions tried to cross the water on a few occasions, but slow-moving boats make easy targets for sharp shooters. And as we learned from our series on Caesar's Legion, the Legion refuses to use long-range weapons out of principle, making picking them off in their boats even easier. Colonel, what do you know about Caesar's Legion? They're organized, I'll give them that. A few times I've encountered them firsthand, I've been impressed with their discipline. I've heard they don't allow women in their military, considering them nothing more than breeding stock. They're men, however, are typically quite large, in phenomenal condition, and prefer close-quarter weapons. Recent engagements have taught us to fear their shock attacks, so it's a blessing that we seem to have superior firearms. What impressed you about their discipline? I've never once seen a single one of them back down, or disobey an order. They'll happily charge a fortified position with little more than a sharpened stick, if ordered to, and do so without hesitation. You mentioned that they were in good shape? Yes, extremely so. They must use conditioning routines on par with the Rangers or better. Their soldiers can run near half again as fast as my best men, and close distances with frightening speed. And they're as strong as they are fast. Their superior physicality makes them extremely dangerous up close, so I've had the men run drills for taking on larger, stronger opponents. But they've all been instructed to take them down at range, if possible. I've made it clear I don't want any heroes in my squad. Just survivors. What kind of weapons do they use? Their standard kit seems to be a blade of some sort and light armor. Guns are not uncommon, but are of questionable condition. While they prefer to use their blades, it's common for them to scavenge better weapons from their enemies and use those. The men have been told to toss their weapons over the side of the dam if they receive a fatal wound, but I doubt many will remember. I command the garrison here at the dam, yes, but Colonel Shoe over at McAaron is technically in charge of the area's forces. Now if we've already visited the Great Cons and completed their quests there, we know that the Great Cons second in command, a man named Regis, is actually open to the idea of working with the NCR. If we know this information, we can tell it to Cassandra. An alliance? That's an interesting proposition. Any plan where I can throw packs of raiders at the enemy instead of my own soldiers is a good one. The current leader of the tribe is dead set against it. Maybe a diplomatic solution would work. We don't have time for diplomacy. This battle is coming any time now. If the leader won't be budged, he'll have to be replaced. I want you to go back to Red Rock Canyon and assassinate this Papa Khan. You'll have to be stealthy. If they see you do it, they'll kill you. I'm not interested in a career in political killings. Then why are you wasting my time? Dismissed. All right, I'll do it. What's the plan? Here, take this lockpicking gear. Your best bet is to wait until late at night, find a back door or catch him by surprise when he's alone. Good luck, soldier. Dismissed. And while that she gives us a copy of Locksmith's Reader and five Bobby pins. So we have to find a way to break the alliance between the Great Khan's and Caesar's Legion or get the Great Khan's to form an allegiance with the NCR or Kill him all. Always an option with Cassandra more. But now that we are working with the Colonel, she said that we're free to purchase gear from Quartermaster Barden. To find Quartermaster Barden, we head out of the Hoover Dam offices as if we were about to leave the dam, but instead turn right down the hallway directly across from Colonel Moore's office. Then if we follow this path down a staircase and take the first right, we find the NCR Supply Room. And here sitting at a desk is Quartermaster Barden. So you're the one that's been running errands for Colonel Moore. Do you need something? Tell me about yourself, Barden. I guess I can spare a minute or two for you. Things are a little slow at the moment anyway. Me? I've been in the military my entire life. It's a family sort of thing. My father served, my brother served, and I served. I've had the honor of serving all over the NCR and now I get to be out on the front lines as the NCR comes out east to help these folks here. Once we get rid of the Legion, this will be a better place for everyone. I'm proud to be part of that. It's really interesting to find the individual perspectives about this struggle from each of these soldiers. While as we learned yesterday, the locals in Freeside consider the NCR to be an invading force taking over their home, Barden sees the NCR as liberators, going out of their way to leave their own home, California, to help free the people of Nevada from the threat of the Legion. Very different sides of the same coin. Well, Barden, I've got more questions about the NCR if you're willing to answer them. I guess I can trust you. What would you like to know? How do you feel about the NCR being out here? The NCR is out here to make the world a better place. For those out here and for all those back home. I'm glad I can be a part of that. What are your thoughts about the Legion? There are a bunch of evil savages if you ask me. We're out here trying to save these good people from being enslaved by those bastards. I hope we kill them all. And he raises an interesting point. The alternative to NCR rule isn't freedom. The alternative is enslavement by the Legion. House only cares about New Vegas. He doesn't care about the slums or the farms or anywhere else in Nevada. All the places that would suffer under the Legion. Unless, of course, the Courier works with a certain robot to create an independent New Vegas, but we're getting ahead of ourselves. Hey, Barden, what do you know about the damn? Well, the damn here is the key to helping the NCR make the world a better place. With the power from the damn, we can help the people here and back home have a better quality of life. We can't trust the Legion or Mr. House to do the same. The NCR is the only one looking out for the people, and we need the damn to do that. And I pity the people that try to take it from us. Thanks, Barden. I'd like to purchase some supplies. Sure thing. Barden here has an incredible inventory. He has a wide selection of even end-game weapons, including plasma castors, Tesla cannons, and Gatling lasers. He sells common and rare armor. We don't see any here, but he can sell power armor pieces. He has a small selection of aid, some ammo crafting supplies, but the best thing about Barden is his huge selection of ammunition. One of, if not the best selection of ammunition in the entire game. Here we can find copious amounts of almost every type of ammo, including ammunition that I often struggle to keep in stock, like the 45-70 government rounds. We can barter with him even if we don't have high NCR reputation, but to do so we have to pass a speech check. And if we're kill on sight, we have to wear an NCR disguise. Now that we're stocked up, we need to head to Red Rock Canyon to visit the cons. The cons are an important faction in the story of Fallout, with the long history. We met them all the way back during the events of Fallout 1. Only at the time they were simply called the cons and not the great cons, as they are now. But pain, misery, and death seems to hot the cons. It follows them wherever they go. It could be bad luck, or maybe it has something to do with their lifestyle choices, after all they are Raiders. I covered the story of the great cons here in the Mojave Wasteland in a multiple episode series that you can watch here. And I encourage you to watch those videos to get up to speed before their story culminates with this episode. If we choose the easy way out and we simply kill all of the great cons so they can't ever help Caesar's Legion, the great cons get the following ending. After generations of being beaten down, the great cons were finally broken by the courier. Those few who avoided the courier's wrath move north into the wilderness of Idaho, where they tried once mortuary build. But if genocide isn't on the table today, our task now is to convince the cons to break their alliance with Caesar's Legion. A task that is not easy, heading to the long house of the great cons, we find Pappacon, the leader of the great cons eating a Brahman steak flanked by his top advisors. It's always a pleasure to see you around the camp. I've come to ask the great cons to break their alliance with Caesar's Legion. Have you now? Hmm, well, you're a bold one, I'll give you that. But why should I do this for you? None of these options are successful. We can say, because the NCR is the best hope for long-term stability in the region, not Caesar. Don't you dare mention the NCR under this roof. They are butchers without honor, killers of women and children. He is, of course, referencing the events that happened at bitter springs, but conveniently ignoring his own role in that massacre. You can find out the full story of bitter springs in my video on the topic that you can watch here. Or we can say, do you really think Caesar is going to restore your tribe to glory? You'll be made slaves! Ha, the great cons will not be slaves. Caesar himself has promised us the land from here to the Colorado and the freedom to raid as we see fit. Or we can say, Caesar is only using you. He doesn't actually care about the great cons. Doesn't he? Caesar's representative tells a different tale. The glory of the great cons will be restored, and once the NCR is pushed back to California, all the land from here to the Colorado will be ours. I won't hear any more talk against Caesar or his alliance. The great cons will answer Caesar's call to war, and the NCR will pay for their crimes. And with that, Pappacon outright refuses to even talk about allying with the NCR to his left we find Carl, the representative from Caesar's Legion. Caesar's veterans will arrive from Arizona soon, and there will be no stopping our victory. What do you think of the great cons? They're a tribe of fine warriors with many proud traditions and a glorious history. They will be worthy additions to the Legion. Beautiful words, Carl, but how do we know it's not flattering? If we stop here, unable to convince the cons, and if we side with the NCR, then the cons get the following ending. After driving the Legion out of the Mojave wasteland, the victorious NCR turned its attention to those who had allied themselves with Caesar. The great cons were among the first tribes to suffer this fate, and the few who survived Hoover Dam were driven north, and to the wilderness of Idaho. But if we want to break this alliance, we need to hunt for some evidence that might change Pappacon's mind, as we step outside the longhouse. I heard you try to convince Pappacon not to join with Caesar's Legion. I'd like to talk to you about that for a moment. This is Regis, Pappacon's second and command. He is a fierce warrior, and is highly respected by the great cons. Why should I listen to you, Regis? Because Pappa listens to me, and because I actually know how to get things done around here. What does it you had in mind? You want to convince Pappa not to ally with Caesar, right? Trust me, you'll get nowhere just talking to him about it. He's fixated on restoring the glory of the great cons, and he sees Caesar as the path to that restoration. So what do I do? Pappa can be a stubborn man, but he's not a tyrant. He listens to his tribe, and to four voices in particular. Me, Jack, Diane, and Melissa. If you can convince all of us that allying with Caesar is a bad idea, you might be able to sway him. Aren't you convinced already if we're having this conversation? I have my doubts about Caesar, yes, but I won't publicly go against Pappacon based on nothing more than doubts. I've heard rumors that tribes who aligned with Caesar in the past were torn apart and reduced to slaves. Prove it, and I'll back you. What would convince Jack and Diane to support me? You'd have to talk to them, but those two have been thickest thieves since they were kids. Convince one, and the other will come around. What about Melissa? Ah, Melissa. She's a bit of a dreamer. Last time she was in camp, Carl filled her head with stories of serving the Legion as a speculatory. Personally, I've never seen a woman in Legionnaire's armor, so I have my doubts. Ah, that sounds like a lot of work. I don't think I really want to do that. I see. Then the great cons will fight for the Legion should Caesar give the call. If you change your mind, let me know. Or we can say, okay, I'll see what I can do to convince everyone. Good. Oh, one more thing. Caesar's representative, Carl, has become fast friends with Pava. Carl's the one who has him so fixated on this alliance. You'll probably have an easier time of things if you can find a way to get him out of the picture. Get Carl out of the picture? How would I do that? Carl talks prettily about the honor and the ability of the great cons, but I suspect his actual opinion is less flattering. Maybe you could find something he wrote that expresses that opinion, or trick him into losing his cool in the longhouse right in front of Pava. I'm not afraid of Carl, and I don't feel like wasting my time on him. If you say so. Actually, that's good advice. I'll keep it in mind. I would too, if I were you. So we have a couple of choices. We'll start by finding evidence that Carl is deceiving the great cons. To do so, we head back inside the longhouse and snoop around in Carl's room. His room is the open door at the northeastern corner of the longhouse. If we inspect the footlocker at the foot of his bed, inside we find Carl's journal. This journal consists of detailed records and observations from Carl's time with the great cons. Many of the entries go into great detail about his opinion of their, quote, savage, barbarous customs, end quote. And at several points, he waxes philosophic about how it's very likely that Caesar's Legion will have to execute the lot of them. Goodness. So Regis and the Legion, don't care about the cons at all. It's all been flattery, just so that they can use the cons. Once we find this journal, we can hand it to Papa Khan. Papa, you should look at this. It's Carl's journal, and it's very revealing about his true opinions. Let me see that. Filthy savages. Probably have to decimate the lot of them. Are these the words of our friend, Caesar? Great cons. Drive Caesar's dog out of our camp. If he's too slow to flee, kill him. Huh? Hey! And the cons leap up and execute Carl. That's one way to break the alliance. Another way, now that we know how Carl really feels, is to go to Carl into revealing his true thoughts on his own. Greetings in the name of Caesar. To do so, we have to pass a series of increasingly more difficult speech checks. I've been wondering, Carl, why you don't petition the cons for membership as a show of allegiance. Join? Oh no, I simply couldn't. That is, I'm not worthy of such an honor. But surely a warrior in the service of glorious Caesar is the equal of any tribe's finest. Of course I am. That is to say, Caesar has many fine warriors, and I wouldn't wish to compare them to the great cons. Why? Because you'd know they'd come up lacking? Enough! How dare you compare Caesar's finest to this tribe of savages. The mightiest great cons is scarcely a match for a legion recruit. The burned man would leave their mightiest shitting themselves in terror. I would. That is... Interesting opinion, Carl. Shame you just shouted it out loud there. I wonder what Papa Con will say about this. You motherless bastard, you'll pay for this. Great cons. Drive seat. Hey! And that's option 2 for breaking the allegiance between the great cons and Caesar's Legion. The next option takes the most work and requires us completing many other quests. Quests that I already outlined in my previous series on the great cons. If we completed all of the quests for Jack and Diane at the Red Rock Drug Lab, then when we next talk with Diane... Someone's been picking off the leaders of the fiends down in New Vegas. That's going to cut into our profits. We can say, so, about the alliance with Caesar's Legion... Anders got back a little while before you did. He told me what happened. If that's how the Legion treats my people, I don't want any part of them. Don't worry, Jack and I have talked it over. We'll talk up the idea of breaking the alliance. Anders, if you recall, was kidnapped by the Legion and crucified for selling drugs. The Legion has a no drug policy. But selling drugs is what the cons do. Plus crucifying a drug runner? Needless to say, Diane hears a little miffed. And then we can check in with Jack. Hey, what's up? I'm here to ask you to publicly oppose Papa Con's alliance with Caesar. It's cool, Kidden. Diane passed me the haps on that fendango with Anders. I got you back. I'm glad you got the haps, Jack. Goodbye. Take it easy, Kiddie Cat. Next, we need to talk with Melissa. After completing her quest, we find her here on the Red Rock Canyon Drug Lab. How's it going? Regis says I should talk to you about speaking against the great cons alliance with Caesar. You can ask, but why would I do that? Cal told me all about the life in the Legion. He says I've got all the makings of a speculatory. Did he also tell you that women aren't permitted to serve in the Legion? What? No, he. What do you mean aren't allowed to serve? Why would he lie about that? If the great cons join the Legion, you'll be sold as a slave. You'll become an officer's wife if you're lucky. That lying little weasel. I almost fell for it too. All right, you've got a deal. You can tell Papa I won't support an alliance. And what that? We convince three of the four leaders. The final one to convince is Regis. But to convince him, we need hard evidence that the Legion has betrayed other tribes before. To find this evidence, we have to head to Fortification Hill. At the top of the hill, we enter Caesar's tent and then examine the tables to the south. On the westernmost table, we find a Legion slave ledger. This ledger is an extensive record of the Legion's prior dealings with tribal societies it has encountered in its expansion. Of particular interest is the fate of the twisted hair tribe of Arizona who formed an alliance with Caesar to serve as his army scouts during the conquest of that region. Once the Arizona wastes were pacified, the Legion turned on its erstwhile allies, stripping them of their tribal identity and forcing them into slavery. Those who resisted were crucified along the remains of Interstate 40. This tragic story is when we are well familiar with if we completed the Lonesome Road DLC. The twisted hairs is the very tribe that Ulysses came from. This ledger is the evidence we need to convince Regis. And with it in hand, we can head back to the Great Khan Longhouse and talk with Regis. You're becoming quite the political agitator. I can't say I'm displeased. Have a look at this book, Regis. It'll show you what happens to tribes that ally with Caesar's Legion. Let me see. My god, this is even worse than I thought. Okay, you have my support. I'll tell Papa the Alliance is a bad idea. And once we have the support of all four of the Khan leaders, we can talk with Papa Khan. All four of my most trusted advisors have told me we should break our alliance. Maybe I should hear you out after all. Hmm, I've heard some things from my most trusted cons. It makes me wonder whether this alliance is a good idea after all. But I want to leave a legacy of greatness when I die. My tribe deserves better than this, cowering in a canyon and living on scraps. Tell me then. If I don't join with Caesar's Legion, where will I find my tribe's lost glory? Our options here decide the fate of the great Khan's. We can get these endings either by passing difficult speech checks of 75 or by going on another quest. We can pass a speech check to say, you don't need to look outward, my de Khan. Your tribe is proud and strong. claim your own glory. Well spoken, traveler. Well spoken indeed. Perhaps it's time to find our own destiny unburdened by the past. We'll begin writing the camp to move. As soon as Caesar makes his move, we'll depart. We will make ourselves strong again, and we shall conquer. Hey, as long as you aren't fighting for Caesar, I don't care what you do. Whatever your motivation was, I think we owe you a debt. Well now that we've got that out of the way, I don't suppose you'd be interested in joining the NCR instead. You've helped me see Caesar for what he is, and I thank you for that. But if you suggest that again, I will have your head. Hey, hey, just asking. Good luck on your migration. If you should ever tire wandering alone, seek us out. You might just have the makings of a great Khan yourself. If we convince the Khan's to pack up and leave Nevada to claim their own glory, then the great Khan's get what is likely the best ending for the Khan's as a tribe. During the Battle of Hoover Dam, the great Khan's quickly evacuated Red Rod Canyon and headed north and east into the plains of Wyoming. There, they reconnected with the followers of the apocalypse and rebuilt their strength. Bolstered by ancient knowledge of governance, economics, and transportation, they carved a mighty empire out of the ruins of the northwest. Alternatively, we can pass a speech check to say, what great legacy do the great Khan's have? Your tribe is nothing but ghosts and martyrs. This is of course referencing their many defeats that occurred during the events of Fallout 1 and 2. Not to mention the massacre at Bitter Springs, while cruel this observation is accurate. I should have you torn apart for speaking like that. But maybe you're right. The glory of the past is an empty dream. If the Khan's are to be immortal, we must make our own destiny. We won't fight for Caesar, but when he strikes, we will ride out one last time. And with that, the great Khan's stand up and execute Karl. After convincing Papa Khan to have his tribe commit suicide by Caesar, the Khan's get the following ending. After their suicidal last stand that Hoover Dam, the great Khan's cease to exist as a tribe. A few surviving members dispersed, joining up with other tribes and gangs across the Mojave, and quickly forgot their heritage. But if we can't pass either of these speech checks, our only option now is to ask any idea where I might look to find such inspiration from the past? The followers of the apocalypse keep many records of the past. It's been a long time since we associated with them, but they might have something. Until you do find me something though, know that I still plan to leave the great Khan's to fight for Caesar. So even after convincing his four top advisors, we have to appeal to history to convince Papa Khan to break the alliance. But he gave us a tip on where we can start. Heading to free side and racing to the old Mormon fort, we can head to the southwestern tower to track down Julie Farkas. Hey Julie, I'm looking for something that could inspire the great Khan's. No of anything like that? The great Khan's. Oh, you mean those raiders that used to clash with the Vegas tribes? Yes, some years back we taught them reading, writing, basic science. We hoped they would use it to make medical supplies, but they turned a drugs. I was never much involved in the cultural side of that project, but Ezekiel was. Who's Ezekiel? He's a member of the followers like myself, but his particular field is pre-war history and tribal culture. I do recall him being fascinated by the Khan's. He kept going on about parallels to some ancient historical empire or another. Where can I find this Ezekiel? He rarely stops in here these days. You do best to look for him out in the wastes east of New Vegas. He's always looking for new tribes to study. And with those horribly vague directions, look for him east of Vegas. We track off to find this Ezekiel. We track him down at the 188 trading post. If interested, I did a video on this location that you can watch here. Using underneath the overpass, we find Ezekiel, just northeast of the gun runners, standing by a large rock. You look like someone with a question. What can I do for you? Julie Farcus said you might know something about the great Khan's. Oh my, yes, they're a fascinating tribe with a long and unfortunately tragic history. Their original incarnation, much farther out west, was almost completely wiped out by one of those itinerant heroes so common in the post-war years. Then of course the new Khan suffered a similar fate, some say at the hands of the same hero. Though of course the dates are all wrong for that. Haha, Ezekiel's referencing the Vaultweller from Fallout 1 and the Chosen One from Fallout 2. Obsidian gives us an opportunity to back out here, but I like the stories, so we'll say this is fascinating. Please continue. Well, after they migrated to the Mojave, we established relations with them, but that's soured when all they wanted was to make drugs. The NCR eventually took them down quite a bit, but the really fascinating thing about them is the origin of their culture as a whole. You see, I'd love to hear your dissertation Ezekiel, but I'm in a bit of a hurry. Oh, of course. I'm sorry, I do tend to get wrapped up in my own theories and forget that not everyone finds them as fascinating as I do. Here, I salvaged this book from an old library. It's a history of people called the Mongols. I think that's what the Khan's built a culture on. You should read it. It's fascinating stuff. Now, what that Ezekiel gives us a history book on the Mongol Empire. Exploring it in our inventory, we learned that the book's name is pretty, pretty horsie is. A history of the Mongol Empire. Sadly, we can't read it, but with the book in our inventory, we can head back to Red Rock Canyon and enter the longhouse to talk with Papa Khan. Ah, you're back. What else do you need? We can use the same book to manipulate the Khan's in one of two ways. We can say, have a look at this book. If you want to see what your tribe could be, read about the Mongol Empire. Hmm, this is exactly the kind of symbol the Khan's could unite behind. We'll begin writing the cap to move. As soon as Caesar makes his move, we'll depart. We will make ourselves strong again, and we shall conquer. And with that, the Khan's get the ending where they leave Red Rock Canyon. Or we can use the same book to say, have a look at this book. Your tribe is nothing but a bunch of thugs, aping the glories of the past. I should have you torn apart for speaking like that. But maybe you're right. And with that, the Khan's get the suicidal ending, which ends with their own destruction. No matter which of these options we choose to break the alliance between the Great Khan's and Caesar's Legion, when done we can head back to Colonel Cassandra Moore to say, the Khan's won't be a problem to anyone ever again. Good riddance. You've had reports for years that they're the ones who supplied a fiends with kems, but no one's done anything about it. In any event, no one will miss them. And I've got another mission for you. But there is one final option. An option that is not necessarily good for the Great Khan's, but certainly good for the NCR. And that's to convince the Khan's to form an alliance with the NCR. But we can't do this with Papa Khan as leader. And since we can't have him step down, the only way to get this ending is to kill him. But we have to do so without being detected. If we sneak behind Papa Khan's throne, we can pick pocket Papa Khan's key. Then we can wait until night time. At around midnight, Papa Khan will rise from his throne and walk to his bedroom. Now his front door here is not locked. But it is marked red. And if the Khan's catch us opening it, they all open fire. But it's possible with high enough stealth to walk right through the front door without being detected. Alternatively, if we have the key that we pick pocketed, we can head outside and creep around to the back of the building. Here we find a locked door leading right to Papa Khan's bedroom. And we can unlock it with the key. Here we find Papa Khan asleep in bed. A silenced weapon is useful for this assassination. With Papa Khan dead, we can loot his inventory where we find two unique items. His Great Khan armored leather and his Great Khan spike-tell-mit. This is a unique suit of Great Khan armor worn only by Papa Khan. And it does count as a faction disguise while wearing it, we appear as a Great Khan. The Great Khan leather armor is a light armor with a DT of 8. The helmet is light with a DT of 2. The spike-tell-mit is pretty rare. There are only two others we can get in the game before the final battle of Hoover Dam. One is on a gravestone at bitter springs, and the other is worn by Oscar Velasco, whom we met in a cave near to bitter springs. On women, it looks almost exactly like a suit of Great Khan's simple armor. The only difference is being that in Papa Khan's version we find some fur as paldrons, and there's a chain hanging from the belt. But the men's version is very different. It comes with a fur cloak that covers the shoulders and most of the chest. Both versions have the same Great Khan's logo we're familiar with, a logo that the Khan's have been using from the very beginning. With Papa Khan dead, Regis becomes the new leader of the Khan's, and in the morning we find him at the longhouse. You honor the Great Khan's with your presence. What can I do to help you? Now that you're in command, will you lead the Khan's against Caesar to fight for the NCR? Without Papa Khan's guidance, I don't know what else to do. All right, you can tell the NCR the Great Khan's will fight for them when Caesar attacks. And with that, the Khan's turn hostile against Karl, who races out of his room, swinging his machete. If we kill Papa Khan, and convince Regis to side with the NCR, the Khan's get the following ending. After the second battle of Hoover Dam, the Great Khan's return for a time to Red Rock Canyon. The NCR's pressing need to expand proved greater than its promise of amnesty, and before long that government decided the Khan's had to go. The surviving Great Khan's were relocated to an isolated barren reservation, well north of NCR trade routes. Heading back to Hoover Dam, we can check in with Cassandra Moore, and tell her that we've spoken to the Great Khan's, and their new leader has agreed to fight for the NCR. Excellent, you've done very well indeed. These tribals will make useful machete fodder, and if it should turn out we need their land later. Well, it's not like we don't have the force to drive them out again. In the meantime, however, I have something else I want you to look into. We've had some disturbing reports recently concerning the Omertas, one of the three families that run the strip. Our intelligence has discovered that high-ranking members of the Omertas have been having clandestine meetings for the past several months. We haven't been able to determine whom they've been meeting with, but if it seesers men will need to act. I need you to uncover what they're up to and stop it if it threatens the NCR. Any questions? And if we've discovered and stopped the Omertas plot, which I did in my series on the Omertas and Gamora that you can watch here, we find an option to say, the Omertas were up to something big, but I stopped them. Excellent. You'd think living in the lap of luxury and power would be enough for some people, but no. But we have other problems. While investigating the Omertas, what little I could on my end, I came across something much more sinister. Evidence suggests that Mr. House is planning to make some kind of move when the battle breaks out, and I'm guessing he won't be coming to our rescue. While we don't know what his exact plans are, my orders are to take no risks. I'm sending you to take Mr. House out of the equation. Any questions? What evidence do you have that Mr. House will make a move? We've had reported sightings of Mr. House's Securitron spying on both NCR and Legion forces. Also, given a recent analysis of the sightings, we now estimate that Mr. House has at least four times as many Securitrons as previously assumed. He wouldn't show his hand like that if he weren't prepared to move, and neither the NCR or Legion can spare the troops to investigate, which is why I'm sending you. Any other questions? What could Mr. House possibly be up to? To name a few things off the top of my head, expand his borders, get the NCR and Legion to wipe each other out and seize Hoover Dam. Any other questions? Won't getting rid of Mr. House have huge repercussions for New Vegas? Perhaps, but that's not my problem. Vegas is a nice place for the men to go on vacation, but it'd be an acceptable loss next to the Dam. No further questions, ma'am. Good, then you have your orders. See that Mr. House does not present a problem. Dismissed. And accepting this quest is a point of no return for the Legion. We fail all other possible Legion quests, and despite our reputation before, we are now kill on sight with the Legion. We now have to find a way into the Lucky 38 Casino to find and destroy House. But sadly, I'm out of time, so we'll have to tackle that in our next episode. I publish many videos each and every week here on my channel, so if you don't want to miss the next one, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs you can't find anywhere else. My designs come in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. My designs come on other products as well like smartphone cases, mugs, pillows, posters, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. I'm becoming more active on Twitter. I use Twitter to make channel updates on announcements like, if I have to skip a day or if a video's going to be late, so if you actively use Twitter, I encourage you to follow me at Oxhorn. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming one of my patrons on Patreon. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with a brand new video. Is it time?