This video contains major spoilers for Fallout 2 and sets the stage for both Fallout 3 and Fallout New Vegas, so if you want to avoid spoilers, turn back now. In the year 2242, the chosen ones' actions on the west coast of what at one time was the United States of America fundamentally changed the nature of the wasteland in California and beyond. But not all of the choices that were available to the chosen one were made by the chosen one. Of them, we know of only a handful that are canonical. The chosen one traveled to Vault City, Met, and recruited Cassidy. After their adventures, Cassidy married a tribal and fathered a daughter, but while his daughter was still a baby, he left his family for unknown reasons and traveled east. As we learn from Cassidy's daughter during the events of Fallout New Vegas, where'd you get that pendant, Cass? Give for my dad, along with my name. Rose of Sharon Cassidy, dad ran a bar a long time ago and it was a labor of love, mom said. Didn't sound like it made her happy. Still, I'm guessing I got some of dad's love of whiskey in me because the burn suits me fine. And here tell my dad was a crackshot, so I don't want to dirty the family name. Not out of pride, respect. Tell me about your dad. Not much to tell. He ended up walking east one day when I was young and never came back. I figure he just got himself lost or dead. Happens. Cass, do you have any idea why your father went east? Not a clue. When he left, I was two in my crib to understand why and around the time mom passed. I was two into my teens to listen. Got his name, got this pendant, and that's about it. The chosen one traveled through Klamath and likely completed most if not all of the quests available there. His visit had such an impact on the people of Klamath that it was long remembered by their descendants. As we learn from Klamath Bob. Howdy, names Bob, but folks around here call me Klamath Bob. Yeah, good old Klamath. Not a bad place if you like hunting, eating, and skinning geckos all day. It's a pretty dull place, but I hear there was a bit of excitement when this tribal from a royal camp of town years back. All before my time though. The chosen one traveled to Modok and killed Rose's pet chicken. As we learn from Rose's great niece, Jas Wilkins, many years later. Let me ask you a question. What's the tastiest thing you've ever eaten? I've got this recipe for a death claw omelet that I've been itching to try out. Trouble is, I need a death claw egg. Kind of obvious, my suppose. My great aunt Rose ran a bed in breakfast back in California in a town called Modok. She's the one who created the recipe in the first place. I don't know how she managed to get a hold of a female death claw, but she kept it in a shed. Aunt Rose had a steady supply of eggs for her omelets. At least she did until some stranger came along and killed the death claw. Shot at right in the eye. Of course, a death claw egg from anywhere will do. According to my aunt Rose, those things have a ridiculously long shelf life. According to the Fallout Bible, a supplementary document of Fallout history and lore, written and released in 2002 by Chris Avalon, one of the developers for both Fallout 2 and New Vegas. When the Chosen One visited NCR, he had a violent confrontation with Doc Henry, possibly while trying to retrieve the Cyberdog plans, which means the Chosen One likely sold them to Merck. And when the Chosen One infiltrated Navarro, he chose to do so by impersonating an Enclay of Officer. As we learn from Kenable Johnson many years later, who was there? There's a twitch in my trigger finger. I've lost my eagle eyes and the other day I could have sworn I heard Sergeant Dornan chewing me out. He was a drill instructor I knew. He was also the meanest bastard I've ever known. Once he caught this private out of uniform, an old Dornan went off on the most ear blistering rant known to man. It was inspiring. You are out of uniform soldier, where is your power armor? The truth is you've lost an expensive piece of army issue equipment. That suit is going to come out of your pay and you will remain in this man's army until you are 510 years old, which is the number of years it will take for you to pay for a Mark II power combat armor you have lost. Report to the Army and have a new suit issued to you. Then report back to me private dismissed. The Fallout Bible tells us that while at Navarro the chosen one freed Zarn, the captive intelligent talking death claw, and repaired K9, which likely means that he killed Dr. Shrieber. But K9 didn't stay with the chosen one for very long. The chosen one took K9 to NCR and dropped him off with Dorothy so that Dorothy could repair him. But this scared Doc Henry. Afraid that too much information about the enclave would be obtained from K9, he tried to destroy both K9 and the Cyberdog, but was ultimately stopped by Dorothy. After Doc Henry fled NCR, the NCR used this terrorist attack as an excuse to confiscate both K9 and the Cyberdog to learn more about them. To do so, they disassembled both Robo Dogs. The damage they sustained during this disassembly likely killed them both. The chosen one had many adventures, but his most important one was a success. He found and saved his people at control station enclave. He retrieved the Geck from Vault 13 and used it to found the city of Newroiroyo. There his tribespeople from Oroiro and the survivors from Vault 13 combined to become one people reuniting a family bloodline that had been severed so many years before. After many years, the elder of Oroiro died peacefully in her sleep and the chosen one became elder of Newroiro in her place. Thanks to the Geck, Newroiro flourished and became a place of strategic defense for the free people of the wasteland centered around Fort Eradash, built nearby to protect Newroiro. The chosen one killed Darian, leader of the new cons, and forced them out of Vault 15. There were a few survivors of the chosen one's massacre. One of Darian's underlings led the cons survivors on a migration east. This underling became the new leader of the cons, and his tribespeople began to call him Papa Khan. After many years of wandering and starving and raiding, these cons, now called the Great Cons, arrived in what at one time was Nevada. The Great Cons settled at a place called Bitter Springs and from Bitter Springs they would raid nearby towns to steal and murder. When the NCR came to the Mojave, we thought they would be easy pickings. We raided their caravans, their towns, their camps. They couldn't stop us. At least that's what we thought. The NCR, in an attempt to protect their citizens, fought against the cons and tracked their tribespeople back to Bitter Springs. The NCR soldiers who arrived at Bitter Springs, one of whom was a man named Craig Boone, received faulty intel. They were told that Bitter Springs was a fortification. One of the Great Cons raider outposts. They didn't realize that it was the Great Cons camp, their home, where their families were. We figured this was a gang hideout, but they'd let us to their home. And so while the NCR was attacking the Great Cons soldiers at the camp, a detachment of the NCR forces called the First Recon was sent to Coyote Tail Ridge to pick off any Great Cons reinforcements and to kill soldiers that were fleeing. When Craig Boone and First Recon saw movement on Coyote Trail, they opened fire only to realize later that they were massacring the women, children, and elderly of the cons who were fleeing the battle in their home. The main force hit the canyon by surprise. While our warriors tried to hold them off, we sent our women, our children, our old through the red pass. NCR's First Recon battalion was waiting for them on Coyote Tail Ridge. No con left alive. That was the order, my family. Women, kids, elderly wounded started coming through too. We were radio to confirm our orders, but command didn't get what we were seeing. It told us to shoot till we were out of ammo, so that's what we did. They tracked us to bitter springs and surrounded us. When our children are sick and old, fled through a nearby pass, the NCR gunned them down. Oh, they claimed it was a miscommunication, but tell that to those who saw our families butchered. Tell it to the survivors who were banished here. Christ. They put the graveyard here. This event became known as the bitter springs Massacre, a massacre that haunted the NCR soldiers who participated in it. A massacre that became a black stain on the reputation of the NCR. A massacre that devastated the great cons. In response, Papa Con led his people away from bitter springs. They moved west, finally settling in Red Rock Canyon, where Papa Con tried to heal and rebuild his tribe, eking out an existence, dealing drugs to other nearby tribes. Not only did the chosen one push out the cons from Vault 15, but he brokered a deal between NCR and the Vault 15 squatters, who had been living outside. The NCR taught the squatters how to survive in the wasteland, and in exchange the NCR gained access to the technology within Vault 15. This was one of NCR's first annexations, and it launched the NCR's ambition to civilize its neighbors. One of the first nearby communities to fall under the sway of the NCR was Redding. We know this because many years later, Chief Hanlon of the NCR Rangers retired in Redding. Bitter over the waste of life in the Mojave, Hanlon stepped down from his post. After a campaign in which he denounced Oliver's and Kimball's hawkish, imperialist ways, Hanlon was elected as the senator of Redding. One guy even had one above his bar in Redding, except it was made of pre-war plastic. This was made possible by the chosen one, who canonically sold the excavator chip to Marge La Barge. It also means that the chosen one never worked with Dr. Johnson at Vault City to produce an antidote for Chant, or at least he never administered that antidote to the miners of Redding. Because had he done so Vault City would have annexed Redding, which they never did. Instead of annexing nearby towns, Vault City joined the NCR. We learned from the Fallout Bible that first citizen Lynette didn't stay first citizen for very long. After control station enclave was destroyed, Senior Council member McClure was appointed first citizen, and Lynette was made an honorary council member. She then left Vault City and traveled to NCR, possibly to spend more time with Council member Weston. While at NCR, she was responsible for drafting much of the legislation that created a partnership between NCR and Vault City, which ultimately led to Vault City being annexed by NCR. We know Vault City was annexed because they didn't get their hands on Redding, and they still existed as a city by the time of the events of Fallout New Vegas. Don't think I'm some kind of Vault City pacifist though. If things get heated, I'll start shooting. Trust me. She made her way back west and passed away in a small shack outside of Vault City. The rose pendant still around her neck. Of the possible ending slides for Vault City, only annexation by NCR allows for both of those fates. Because of this, we know that the chosen one fixed the power plant at Gecko, because all of Gecko's ending slides where the plant was not fixed ended with Vault City's destruction. And due to this, we know that Harold survived and left. He traveled east, crossing the entire continental United States on foot with only himself and Bob for company. After traveling for many years, he finally arrived at the capital wasteland, but the trip had changed him. President Richardson and Vice President Bird both died when the chosen one destroyed Control Station enclave. But oddly enough, the chosen one did not destroy Navarro. He infield traded it as we already learned. Use the information he gained there to get to Control Station enclave, but he left the people of Navarro alive. Many heads turned all over the wasteland to watch the explosion of Control Station enclave, but the man who was arguably most alarmed by the destruction of Control Station enclave was named John Henry Eden. Eden was a member of the enclave on the opposite side of the continent. He watched as Control Station enclave went dark. With the President and the Vice President Gong, there was no one left to give the enclave orders. This left John Henry Eden, the highest ranking member of the United States left in America. And so John Henry Eden reached out to the survivors of the enclave at Navarro. He found a certain scientist named Senior Scientist Autumn. He convinced Autumn to lead a migration of the enclave's highest ranking members and much of their technology across the continental United States to meet him in the capital wasteland. And so Senior Scientist Autumn gathered them together along with their vertebrates and their most precious technology and traveled over the span of many years to eventually arrive on the East Coast where they met with John Henry Eden at a pre-war military installation called Ravenrock and took control of and occupied the Adams Air Force Base. There, the enclave began to rebuild. The schematics they brought with them from Navarro allowed them to produce new technology. More vertebrates, better armor, more sophisticated weaponry. At Ravenrock in the Adams Air Force Base, the enclave began to rebuild their society. Senior Scientist Autumn eventually died. Perhaps he soaked up too much radiation during his trek across the continental United States. We don't know, but we do know that Nepotism was strong in the enclave for his son Augustus Autumn succeeded him and from thence forward he was known as Colonel Augustus Autumn. John Henry Eden named himself President of the United States of America. He focused on the big picture leaving Colonel Autumn to deal with the day-to-day leadership of the enclave. Under the leadership of Colonel Augustus Autumn, the enclave engaged in two major research projects. The first was researching and developing the Hellfire Power Armor. The second was the Ibot DuraFrame Project. The Ibot DuraFrame Project, helmed by lead researcher Whitley, aimed to improve Ibot armor, increase their communications range, and better arm Ibot with a Tesla cannon. However, even after Whitley had made great progress in the DuraFrame Project, Colonel Augustus Autumn abruptly cancelled the project, claiming that he needed to focus all of the enclave's resources on developing the Hellfire Power Armor. But Whitley didn't want his work to have been in vain, and so he put together and activated his only functioning prototype. Ibot DuraFrame subject E, or Eddie, for short, and uploaded a bunch of information about pre-war Poseidon energy technology and the DuraFrame Project to Eddie's hard drive. Then Whitley sent Eddie to meet up with the enclave at Navarro. My name is Whitley. I'm a researcher at Adams Air Force Base, until recently I was in charge of the DuraFrame reinforcement project for the combat model Ibot's. Ibot DuraFrame subject E, is both the prototype and the last functional model in this test group. I was prepared to make several significant upgrades to the machines. However, as the project was cancelled in all DuraFrame assets are being diverted to Hellfire Armor, I'm sending this model to the Navarro off-post. Eddie left the Adams Air Force Base and embarked on his cross-country trek. Along the way, he stopped by an enclave outpost in Chicago, Illinois. If you're listening to this log from one of our enclave outposts in Chicago, give this unit whatever repairs it needs so it can continue to Navarro. We don't know much about this enclave outpost. We don't know if it was a pre-war government facility that had been part of the enclave from the very beginning, or if Chicago was a stopping point for senior scientist Autumn during his trek from Navarro to the east coast. And at that stopping point, they found another enclave outpost. At any rate, Eddie passed through Illinois, picking up a license played along the way, and continued on his journey to Navarro. However, when he reached Navada, some local raiders used Eddie as target practice, severely damaging the Ibot. Eddie's wreckage was later found by a courier of the Mahave Express, who brought the wreckage to the Mahave Express office in the town of Prim. There, the courier left the wreckage under the watchful eye of Mahave Express supervisor Jonathan Nash, who attempted to repair Eddie, but ultimately failed. A courier dropped it off a couple of months back. I got it working for a little while, but the darn thing pooped out. I haven't been able to get it up and running again. I was hoping to use it for some courier work, but that ain't gonna happen. Quitli had hoped that the enclave at Navarro would be able to pick up the Ibot DuraFrame project, where Quitli had left off. But what Quitli and apparently the other enclave on the east coast didn't know was that Navarro was destroyed. As the NCR began annexing town after town, settlement after settlement, it grew in prominence and power. The NCR saw Navarro from afar and decided that it was just too dangerous to leave alone. Internal sabotage took down the oil rig. Never did get the full story. The NCR took out Navarro, saying we posed a threat to the region. After the enclave's command structure fell apart. It was only a matter of time before Navarro was overrun by NCR forces. The NCR gathered their forces and attacked the enclave at Navarro. This was a decisive victory for the NCR. They devastated the enclave at Navarro, killing most of them and scattering the survivors to the winds. Anyone who didn't get out was killed by the NCR. Even some of the ones who escaped were eventually hunted down by the brotherhood of steel. And from the ruins of Navarro, the NCR scavenged a horde of technology, including a fleet of vertebrates, and likely the vertebrate blueprints, allowing them to create more. They also found a lot of unknown technology, most of which they didn't really know what to do with. They found one piece of technology that had markings on it they had seen before, and a little town called The Divide. And so they hired a courier to transport this piece of technology to The Divide, you know, to see what would happen. I covered the results of that trip in my series on the Lonesome Road DLC for Fallout New Vegas. Many of the enclave survivors of Navarro tried to integrate into NCR, and so the NCR began a campaign of rooting out all enclave remnants within their ranks. Many of these enclave remnants fled California to avoid capture by NCR. These enclave remnants settled in the Mahave wasteland, doing their best to fly low, trying not to stick out, doing everything they can to keep hidden the fact that they were once part of the enclave. This includes Daisy Whitman, who was none other than the vertebrate pilot, who crashed her vertebrate in Klamath. 71 missions and only lost one chopper, rotor malfunction over Klamath. Hard landing, but I walked away. Orion Marino wants a heavy weapons trooper for the enclave. Heavy weapons trooper. Nothing better than hosing down a target with an excess of bullets and laser fire. Judah Krieger, who was once an enclave captain, Cannibal Johnson, an enclave sniper, Arcade Ganon, who wasn't actually part of the enclave, but whose parents were. He was born at Navarro, and he fled as a child with his family after the NCR sacked Navarro. Well, my mother never told me what happened to my father, but she and I went south with some others and integrated in the NCR. When the NCR learned that enclave personnel had integrated, we kept moving to the fringes. It's one of the reasons why I wound up out here. My mother and I left with some of the troopers from my father's old unit. The same people I've kept in contact with over the years. And Doc Henry, who arrived in the Mahave wasteland after trying to destroy K9 and the CyberDog at NCR, and made his way to Jacob's town, where he hoped to continue his scientific research in peace. Yes, specializing in neuroscience both human and K9. Of course, this lab is nothing compared to what I had when I was with the enclave. New Reno was one of the many settlements in cities absorbed by the NCR. We learned this from Carter, a powderganger, whom we find inside the NCR correctional facility in the Mahave wasteland. I worked in a casino in New Reno. One of the pit bosses decided he didn't like me. Frame me over some caps, and I ended up in here. Carter could only be found in an NCR penal colony in the Mahave wasteland for a crime he did in New Reno if New Reno was itself part of the NCR. However, the NCR found it difficult to rid New Reno of all of its vice. Despite being part of NCR, New Reno still maintained a lot of its autonomy, so much so that its day-to-day operations remained controlled by crime families. Grue up a New Reno, and I couldn't put that snake pit behind me fast enough. Imagine New Vegas if there was no Mr. House type fella keep in the piece, then give everybody a gun and a jet addiction. Towns run by a bunch of crime families. No law to speak of. Make trouble and you wind up buried in Golgotha outside town. The scuzz factors off the charts, non-stop horring in drugs, couldn't walk down the street without getting asked to star in a porn movie. After the destruction of control station enclave, the enclave was no longer able to provide the salvatories with their lightbringers, and so their crime family in New Reno fell from prominence. Instead, they were replaced by a new crime family, the Van Graffs, who specialized in arms deals. The Van Graffs originally came from redding where they set up their own gold trade. Trading in gold made them money, gold and money they used to procure weapons. Weapons which they sold to make even more money and weapons, which made them an intimidating family in their own right. Our family comes from redding to the west. We deal weapons mostly but trade other commodities like gold if there's cash in. My brother and I run this particular branch, but our family has operations all over, particularly in California. It was the ruthless Van Graff family, more than any other power in California, that stood in the way of NCR expansion for a while. The Van Graffs and the NCR have been enemies for decades. They've tried to block our expansion for years, but we've managed to grow regardless. The problem is they have too. The NCR is huge now. We're talking on a scale that's difficult to imagine. Time was, we could fight them and hold our own, not so anymore. My family has enough men and guns to feel the small army, but the NCR can feel the really, really big army. Fighting them is out of the question now. The NCR eventually grew to powerful even for the Van Graffs, and so to survive the Van Graff family expanded their operations into other cities, first into New Reno and eventually into the Mahave Wasteland, where they set up shop in Free Side in the ruins of the Silver Rush Casino. A local gang in Free Side called the Kings initially objected, but the Van Graffs superior energy firepower quickly put the Kings in check. It appears as though the chosen ones sided with the right family in New Reno. For by the time of the events of Fallout New Vegas, it was the right to were jockeying for power with the Van Graffs. The whole city is still run by crime families. Used to be the Mardinos and rights. Now it's the rights and Van Graffs. The bishops and the Mordinos still existed, but they were less powerful. The Mordino family lost Myron. Myron was stabbed to death by a jet junkie in the den, and even though Vault City eventually joined NCR, it wasn't due to the machinations of John Bishop from New Reno. We don't really know what happened to John Bishop, but we know that he was succeeded by his son, or maybe his grandson. A son or grandson who had very little in common with John Bishop. You don't know Mr. Bishop. He's not like other bosses up there. He knows the waste land like the back of his hand, and he likes to wander it. This likely means that the chosen one is the father of John Bishop's successor, which means that the canonical ending for the Bishop family is that the chosen one impregnated either Mrs. Bishop or John Bishop's daughter. We learn from the ending slides of Fallout 2 that the chosen one's offspring died in his 70s, never knowing his father, but the events of Fallout New Vegas are long before his death. Not long after the destruction of the enclave, the Bishop family of New Reno was blessed with a child. This child seemed to have little in common with the bishops, preferring instead to spend his days exploring the wastes. He died quietly in his sleep at the age of 73, never having known his real father. The Mr. Bishop's spoken about by Bruce Isaac in the Mahave Wasteland is the chosen one's son, spoken about in the ending slides for New Reno. Cassidy was not the only potential companion who joined the chosen one. The chosen one explored the Sierra Army Depot and recruited SkyNet as a companion, and Marcus traveled with the chosen one for a while. Was part of the super mutant army. Ran a town, walked the wasteland with a tribal. Now I'm here. In order to gain Marcus as a companion, the chosen one had to tie up a few loose ends in broken hills. That means that canonically the chosen one and Marcus broke the conspiracy of the mutant haters and broken hills and imprisoned them. And the chosen one found the missing people, dead within the Uranium Mine. Canonically Marcus was with the chosen one while the chosen one destroyed control station on Klave. We were looking for a geck to save the village of Eroio. Eventually we did. Nuked an oil rig in the process. We went separate ways after that. I went east into the Rockies looking for other mutants like myself. Don't know what happened to my friend. I'm got a feeling it turned out all right in the end. Broken hills didn't last very long. The Uranium and the Uranium Mine eventually ran out, and the people of Broken Hills took their wealth with them and scattered into the wasteland. But Marcus had been inspired by his travels with the chosen one. And so he left California to go on his own adventure. Along the way he attracted more remnants from the Master's Army. And together they arrived in Nevada and made a home for themselves at Black Mountain. But many of the remnants of the Master's Army had discovered Stalthbois, these Nightkin, began to slowly grow insane due to Stalthboi poisoning. Tabitha, one of the Nightkin, to have accompanied Marcus to Black Mountain, grew ever more unstable and inspired the other unstable Nightkin to take control of Black Mountain. Tabitha renamed this community at Black Mountain the community of Utobitha, and more level-headed super mutants like Marcus left. But Marcus was still inspired by the legacy of the chosen one, and so he moved on to found a new settlement called Jacob's Town. It is here at Jacob's Town where Marcus hoped to make a new Broken Hills where super mutant and human lived and worked side by side. Many of the intelligent and peaceful remnants from the Master's Army arrived here at Jacob's Town to help Marcus build this new future for super mutants. But Marcus also took pity on some of the Nightkin. He allowed the Nightkin into Jacob's Town, but some of these Nightkin weren't quite as tolerant towards the human presence as Marcus. It was here at Marcus's Jacob's Town where Doc Henry from the enclave finally settled, and the research he was conducting was to find a cure for the Nightkin's schizophrenia. We have no idea what happened to the she of San Francisco. San Francisco does appear in Kellogg's memories during the events of Fallout 4, and he mentions the she. We learn from Kellogg's memories that Conrad Kellogg worked as an enforcer for the she. I thought San Francisco was my chance to start fresh, and you don't need to worry about me. Most of it's just running security for the she, about a standing around looking tough. But Kellogg was born in the year 2179. The events of Fallout 2 don't happen until the year 2241. That makes Conrad Kellogg already 42 years old when the chosen one was born. By the time the chosen one was an adult, Kellogg was older than the elder of a royal, older than elder lions. Therefore the San Francisco we see in the memories of Conrad Kellogg is a San Francisco that existed before the chosen one was even born. The she, therefore, that Kellogg worked for are the she that existed before the destruction of control station enclave. So ultimately, we don't know what happened to them after the enclave were destroyed. We do know, however, that the chosen one did not destroy the Habologists. We know this because many years later the soul survivor meets a direct descendant of Dick Hubble himself, Darra Hubble. Before the Great War, a brilliant writer named Dick Hubble invented a process for expanding the human mind. I am his direct descendant and keeper of all his secrets collectively known as Habology. Darra Hubble traveled all the way to the ruins of Nukoworld from California. Her parents were likely with the Habologists at San Francisco when the chosen one visited. In order for Darra, a direct descendant of the founder of Habology, to first of all have been born and second of all, migrate all the way from the West Coast to the east, the chosen one must have left the Habologists intact. Somehow, President Tandy got rid of Frank Carlson as her vice president. Perhaps Carlson was assassinated or perhaps he just retired. We don't know, but we do know that Carlson was replaced by Vice President Joanna Tibbet. President Tandy died after battling illness for many years in the year 2248. And then Vice President Joanna Tibbet became president. It was around that time that many settlers and prospectors of the NCR began to move into the Mahave Wasteland, looking for their own fortune. One day, 38 of these NCR prospectors were massacred by raiders at Bullhead City within the Mahave Wasteland. President Tibbet's feeble response to this massacre resulted in a vote of no confidence in the Congress, causing her to be replaced by Wendell Peterson. Wendell Peterson's first act as the new president of the NCR was to order three battalions of NCR infantry into the Mahave in response to the massacre at Bullhead City. There, the NCR fought raiders for 17 years. A war which became known as the pacification of the Mahave. At last, after 17 years of warfare, the NCR was victorious and drove out the raiders from Bullhead City and the nearby surrounding territories. At around this time in the year 2271, the desert rangers, which the chosen one met inside NCR during the events of Fallout 2, merged with the NCR rangers in a move that later became known as the Ranger Unification Treaty. A move that greatly strengthened the NCR rangers and as a consequence, the NCR military. The pacification of the Mahave was so successful that the NCR decided to establish a permanent presence in the Mahave Wasteland and so in the year 2272, they created the Mahave outpost. By 2273, General Aaron Kimball, a war hero, a man to whom many in the NCR gave credit for the success of the pacification of the Mahave, decided to retire from the military and to enter politics. He campaigned for office in his hometown of the hub in California and was eventually elected their governor. Only a few months later, he was then elected president of the NCR, replacing Wendell Peterson. One of the first things Aaron Kimball did to solidify his power in the Mahave was to occupy the Hoover Dam in 2274. However, when the NCR arrived at Hoover Dam, they were greeted by three rather sophisticated tribal families, led by a man who called himself House. This House and these tribal families had firm control over nearby New Vegas, New Vegas that depended on power from Hoover Dam and they weren't just about to let the NCR walk in and take it. And so Aaron Kimball and the NCR were forced to make a compromise. In what became known as the Treaty of New Vegas, House and the three families allowed the NCR to move in and take control of Hoover Dam as long as the NCR left New Vegas to House. The NCR was allowed an embassy inside New Vegas and the NCR had to allow their troops free movement into New Vegas when they were on leave so that their troops could spend their money in New Vegas. As part of this treaty, the NCR could draw 95% of the power coming from Hoover Dam. NCR got the dam and the power could move into the Mahave wasteland, House and the three families maintained the independence of New Vegas while still getting the power they needed from Hoover Dam and a steady flow of NCR citizens and soldiers flooding into New Vegas to spend their hard earned NCR money. But not everyone was willing to just watch while the NCR grew so quickly. The Brotherhood of Steel in California became concerned. As the chosen one learned from Matthew outside the Brotherhood bunker inside San Francisco, the Brotherhood's power and influence had waned since the events of Fallout 1 so that by the time of Fallout 2, they were barely a presence in the wasteland. But with the NCR becoming even more powerful and accumulating even more technology, it was then that the Brotherhood decided that enough was enough. They needed to emerge from their hiding and reclaim as much of this technology from the NCR that they could. They began to take technology from whomever they thought didn't deserve it. The Brotherhood raided the NCR's gold stockpile from Redding, which severely undercut the value of the NCR dollar. This forced the NCR to abandon the gold standard that backed their paper bill. This led to many of the citizens of the NCR to lose faith in the NCR dollar. In response, the water traders of the hub went back to the bottle cap, a currency that hadn't been used in California since the events of Fallout 1, each bottle cap backed by a specific measure of water. This aggression by the Brotherhood of Steel ultimately led to full on war between the Brotherhood and the NCR. The NCR forced the Brotherhood in California into hiding and chased the Brotherhood all the way to the Mahave wasteland. The war between the Brotherhood and the NCR culminated spectacularly in 2276. The Brotherhood of Steel had discovered and occupied Helius I, a pre-war Poseidon energy concentrated solar power plant. The Brotherhood began stripping the place for technology. At the time, the Brotherhood of Steel was led by a man named Father Elijah. Father Elijah was obsessed with finding some super weapon they could use to destroy the NCR. He was certain that he could find this super weapon at Helius I. And he was right. Helius I was the key that he needed to open Archimedes II, an energy-based orbiting artillery satellite. But before Father Elijah could find a way to activate Archimedes II, the NCR launched Operation Sunburst and besieged Helius I. The Brotherhood fought a bloody battle and lost. The NCR's victory at Helius I was decisive. The Brotherhood of Steel lost half of their chapter and was forced to retreat. Father Elijah deserted the Brotherhood of Steel and no one knows where he went. Though rumor has it, he wandered off to search for even greater technology at a place called The Big Empty. As for the Brotherhood of Steel, no one knows what happened to the surviving half of the chapter. Perhaps they still exist in some hidden valley. The NCR's victory over the Brotherhood of Steel and Helius I simply traded one enemy for a new one. The NCR began to hear rumors of a slaver nation to the east, a tribal society that had ground up and consumed every other tribe it encountered. They called themselves the Legion. The NCR had been content to watch from Hoover Dam, but something changed. The Legion once content to wage war on petty tribes had mobilized and began to move towards the Mahave wasteland. This was a bad time for the NCR. Something awful had happened at the divide, cutting off one of their major arteries. Troops and caravans could no longer take State Route 127. What with Death Valley on one side in The Big Empty on the other, the only avenue the NCR had to move troops and supplies was the long 15. This dramatically slowed down the NCR's ability to resupply and reinforce their own troops in the Mahave. And it was at this moment that they saw the Legion shaking their spears on the other side of the Colorado. It was war and the NCR had to defend the Mahave wasteland with what little forces they had. The NCR mobilized their troops to defend Hoover Dam just in time for the Legion to attack instigating the first battle of Hoover Dam. General Lee Oliver entrenched the bulk of NCR's defenses in the middle of the Dam. Joshua Graham, the leader of the Legion during this fight, pushed all his forces onto the Dam to meet General Oliver. Fresh recruits in the front veterans in the back, but the fresh recruits at the front of Graham's forces were no match for General Oliver's battle-hardened troopers. And despite the Legion's superior numbers, Graham's Legionary forces just couldn't get past General Oliver. To make matters worse for the Legion, Chief Hanlon, leader of the NCR Rangers, used his Ranger snipers to pick off the veteran Legionaries at the back of Graham's forces. Seeing their veteran Legionaries being picked off like this caused absolute chaos within the ranks of Joshua Graham's Legionaries, leading to a complete breakdown in command. The veterans didn't want to be picked off by the Rangers, so they pushed through the raw recruits to fight Oliver in the middle of the Dam, but Oliver and Hanlon responded by staging a retreat. Oliver's troops hid in the sidewalkways of the Dam, allowing the Legionary Veterans to pass through, and the Rangers retreated to nearby Boulder City. Graham had lost control of his army. The veteran Legionaries pushed through all the way to Boulder City, but what they didn't know was that Chief Hanlon had rigged Boulder City with explosives. Hanlon and the Rangers hid in safety and watched as the Legion raced into Boulder City just in time for the NCR to detonate the explosives. This trick killed the Legion's mightiest fighters, and the Rangers began to quickly mop up the survivors. Joshua Graham was forced to retreat, and with that the NCR won the first battle for Hoover Dam, but for his loss, Joshua Graham was severely punished by the leader of the Legion. Caesar, for failure, is simply not an option in Caesar's Legion. Caesar brought Joshua Graham to the Grand Canyon, covered him in boiling pitch and set him on fire. He and his Legion then tossed Joshua Graham into the Grand Canyon. There's no way any normal man could have survived that, and so Caesar and the Legion left the Grand Canyon confident that Graham had been punished, but some say that the burned man survived, and walked north to Utah. These rumors struck fear into the heart of Caesar's Legionaries, and Caesar himself has even sent assassins into Utah to try and find and kill Joshua Graham once and for all. But none of these assassins, none of these Fumantari have ever returned. Four years went by, and Caesar rebuilt his Legion by destroying more tribes, seizing their wealth, and enslaving their people. Caesar's Legion has returned to the Mojave, and is now camped on the eastern bank of the Colorado, preparing for the second battle for Hoover Dam. The NCR is an even weaker state than it was during the first battle for Hoover Dam, Chief Hanlon was sidelined as a military leader because General Oliver was jealous of all of the attention Hanlon got after their victory at the first battle for Hoover Dam. The supply lines haven't gotten any better, the NCR still only has the Long 15, and in the Mojave wasteland they find themselves besieged on all sides, fighting the cons, the powder gangers, the jackals and the vipers, and a new raider gang more insidious than all the others, the fiends. New Vegas continues to bleed the NCR dry, and the Legion is becoming boulder, even daring to venture to the western side of the Colorado. NCR scouts report smoke from the nearby town of Nipton, and the soldiers at camp searchlight aren't responding. And it is this world that a certain career awakes to find on October 11th 2281. Here the epilogue to Fallout 2 ends, and the story of Fallout New Vegas begins. For the full story of Fallout New Vegas, you can watch my series by clicking here. What are your thoughts on the epilogue to Fallout 2? Are the canonical choices that the chosen one made, the ones you made in your game? Was there a character or a faction from Fallout 2 that you wish you knew more about? Let me know in the comments section below. I publish many videos each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss my next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you already have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. Things live in the fog. Celebrate the survivors of the fog with this brand new design that comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and a wide array of colors. You can find it on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So if interest did you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. Members and patrons are becoming ever more important as YouTube continues to make changes to their platforms and other things happen that I can't predict, so I deeply appreciate every member and patron from the bottom of my heart. Thank you so very much. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.