In our last video, we destroyed the source of the master's mutants, the Mariposa military base. While talking with the lieutenant of that facility, we learned that the master was hiding out with the children of the cathedral. We then found a holotape where we discovered that the master is really Richard Gray, one of Harold's old traveling companions. Richard Gray quite literally outgrew the Mariposa military base, and so he left it to travel to the cathedral south of the Boneyard where we think he likely found a vault. We learned from Lorraine at the Boneyard that there is a vault beneath the cathedral, making it the most likely place for the master's secret lair. And so we had south. Passed the Boneyard to arrive at the cathedral. As we arrive, four members of the followers of the Apocalypse arrived from the west. This is the help that Nicole said she would send with us. She also told us to meet with a spy whom she has posing as a child of the cathedral. When we find her, we're supposed to share with her the past phrase, red rider. Outside the cathedral, we find many robed individuals, and one of them recognizes us. He says that he's heard of our exploits around the wasteland, and he wonders what brings us to the cathedral. We can tell him that we're here because we've heard strange stories about the cathedral, and when we ask him what's going on here, he says, we're getting ready for war. We're going to save the world, so we can fill it with all this peace and unity bull crap. It looks like we found a child of the cathedral who really doesn't believe what they're preaching. Perhaps he's just here for the food and shelter. If we try to feign Mach Shock at how sarcastic this guy is being, he dismisses us and says we should probably go talk with someone else. If we ask him why he is here, if he thinks the unity is all bull crap, he very practically says, well I'd rather screw someone else than be screwed myself. We can then ask him for details, but all he can tell us is that he hears that the children are getting ready to move north, but at this point he becomes hesitant to talk with us any more out in the open. So changing topics, we can ask him about the children of the cathedral leadership here at the cathedral. He says that they're led by a man named Morpheus, and we can find him at the top of the tower. This child doesn't have a lot of respect for him. He says the guy dresses in black. He does his preacher act, and then he goes upstairs and counts his money. But then he stops himself and says I can't talk about this anymore. The nightkin might hear. When we ask him what he could possibly be afraid of, he says you've got to be joking. The nightkin are killers. You look at them the wrong way, and they'll cut off your body parts, cook them, and feed them to you at a time. They can't be killed. They're the masters and forcers, and they're going to tear apart this world for him. He then tells us about a man named Lashir who works here. He says man stay away from him. He's completely... I don't know if I can really describe him. Imagine the one person on earth you don't want to know. Lashir is worse. Wow, so it really looks like some of the children of the cathedral haven't bought into the cause and are here because they're afraid, or they have nowhere else to go. Moving forward, we find a man labeled a teenager standing in front of the door. He says hello. He's not really useful. He tells us a lot of things we already know, but we learned that he is primarily afraid of the nightkin. He thinks that if they catch him talking, they'll eat him. His job here is to give out flowers. That's why we found a flower on one of the super mutant's corpses inside the Mariposa military base. Every petal of a flower symbolizes peace, and the stem is to symbolize unity. At least that's what he thinks. Then he gets confused. He says, wait a minute, do the petals signify unity and the stem signifies peace? He can't remember, but he offers us a flower. When done talking with the teenager, we can enter the cathedral, and unlike at the Mariposa military base, our support enters with us. At Mariposa, the Paladins stayed outside, but these followers of the apocalypse waltz in with their spears in hand. We see robed children in the pews and two screens behind the lectern. One flickers a face, and the other one says, pray, follow unity. We'll start exploring by heading into one of the rooms to the left here. Here we find a robed woman. We find a joke from the developers here. We find an option to say, you know, every time I talk to someone, people keep repeating the same thing they say over and over again. And he says, yeah, I know. I have a tendency to do that too, when I have nothing original to say. See you later. Ah, the limitations of a video game RPG. This kind also appears to be a reluctant follower. If we say, oh yes, I have found this place so interesting. Praise the master. Praise the holy flame. She says, right, sure. Of course, see you later. So she mocks us if we answer earnestly or at least in mock earnestness. But if we make fun of the children by saying, I have seen higher forms of entertainment, she gets offended and says that this place isn't about entertainment, it's about enlightenment. More importantly, it's about making the right choices about the destiny of the world. See you around. So at this point, I can't tell if she cares about the children's cause or not. At any rate, moving north, we find another room with two more children inside. Hello, my brother. May I be of service this glorious day? What kind of services do you offer? But I only met... Oh, I have to go now. We can try talking with her again. Well, hello again. Are you just walking or may I help? Can I ask you a few questions about the children? Oh, I'm hardly an authority. You should see Morpheus the High Priest. I'm sure he can help you much more than I. This must be Laura. The spy from the followers of the apocalypse whom we were told to meet with once we got inside. We'll come back to talk with Laura later. For now, we'll continue exploring. Heading into the sanctuary, we can take the first door to the right. Here we find a robed man who acts as a merchant. We can buy a small store of camps and a whole lot of flowers, but more importantly, this is one more opportunity to get a children of the cathedral robe if we didn't have one already. Though to get it, we do have to kill him. Heading out of the shop and moving north, we find two armored people standing by a door to the east. This is Sister Francis. She gets upset at us for interrupting her meditation. We learned that their leader Morpheus hasn't given sermons in a very long time. She thinks it's because he and many of the other leaders are too busy getting ready for their crusade. Her dialogue here, however, is different. If we talk to her while wearing a robe of the children of the cathedral, she addresses us as brother. We can ask her to share with us some of her meditations, and they disturbingly go like this. The master is my friend. Unity is prosperity. Peace is prosperity. Peace and unity come through obedience. Obedience is proven through submission to authority. He who submits will be christened by the holy flame, but the faithful will not be burned. He who goes through fire without burning shall have life everlasting. I hope I didn't miss anything. I believe this is an illusion to dipping in the vats. The FEV is the fire, and to survive the dipping while retaining your intelligence is to survive the fire without getting burned. Next to her is a man named Tawn, and he says he's happy to talk with us. But he warns us, look, if I hear the word pray, I'll kill you. He's just here because the children of the cathedral give him a roof over his head, a place to sleep, and three square meals a day. The ensuing violence the master's war he doesn't mind, he says, hey, this gives me a chance to kill the people who used to screw me over. What more do you want from life? So it seems like the master's recruitment standards are not very high. He's recruiting anyone who's interested, even if they don't believe in the unity. Moving to the western side of the auditorium, we can open the southwestern door. This is Dr. Wu, and he's not very pleasant. He begins cussing us out as soon as we start talking with him. He refuses to answer questions. He refuses to share his rubbing alcohol with us, in case we wanted to get drunk. He is happy to heal us, but he does so clumsily. The vault-weller says, ow! We find an option to ask him if he ever puts people to sleep, and he says, no, but the knight can do that. Though sometimes he gives the knight kin kins that they can use to put people to sleep. But why would the knight kin want to put people to sleep? In the far northwestern corner, we find a lacer. My quarters are not open to those who have not been consecrated, he says. I must ask you to leave at once. We can beg his forgiveness, and use the opportunity to learn more about the cathedral. Lyscher says that the cathedral is a sanctuary for the human race. This allowed for the birth of the master, what he describes as a healing darkness from a terrible light. The terrible light being the nuclear apocalypse of 2077. When Lyscher here arrived, he saw that the cathedral lacked a moral center, so he has taken it upon himself to administer teaching pain to the children here. The truth is he's a sadist, and he simply likes beating his underlings with a kettle broad. We get different options if we arrive while wearing a children of the cathedral robe, we can pretend like we feel that we lack moral righteousness, and when we ask him how we can attain righteousness, he gives us a lecture about how no one should fear mutation. Trying to argue that normal human conception is a mutation of some sorts, it's a mutation of our parents DNA, therefore we are all mutants, which is a bit of warped reasoning. But why would he tell one of the members of his religious order not to fear mutation? He almost gives us the impression here that many of these children are destined for the vats. He tells us that we should embrace pain as our closest friend. For pain is the most instructive force in the universe. We must inflict ourselves with pain until we break, which allows us to no longer exist as an individual, only then can we be remade into the master's tool. That is the solution to all of our problems. When we ask him what they call him lasher, we learn that he carries a cattle prod with him. He calls the rod his holy instrument, through which he instructs his charges, with pain. Pain clears the mind of evil thoughts, and allows them to better comprehend the glory of the master. Despite his reputation, we can insult him and his faith without him turning hostile. He tells us that we can find Morpheus at the top of the tower, but that we should be careful, because the tower is guarded with Nightkin. If we ask him to persuade the Nightkin to allow us to pass, he says that's a reasonable request. Take this symbol. Show it to the Nightkin when you wish to pass. With that he gives us a red children of the cathedral badge. We'll use this later, but now that we've talked with everyone on this bottom floor, we can head back south to check in with Laura. Hello, my brother. May I be of service this glorious day? Are you Laura? I most certainly am. Did you want something? Nicole sent me to talk with you. Nicole? I'm so sorry. I don't believe I know anyone by that name. Well, she told me to tell you, red rider. I'm sorry. I just don't know. Follow me to a place where we can talk. With that she brings us to an empty room to the southeast. So what can I do for you now? I need to ask you a few more questions. Make it quick. We can be creepy and say, what's a nice girl like you doing in a place like this? Waiting desperately for someone to use that pathetic line on me. Or we can ask her what she's learned about the master. Not much. The children worship him and sometimes a huge vision of him appears in the main name of the church. So he is real? Yes and no. I snuck up to the front one day and I found a strange mechanical device with a lens under the altar. Sounds like some sort of hollow projector. So I'm pretty sure this master is flesh and blood. And I also think I know where he is. Where's that? Everyone's in a while. Morpheus will go through a secret staircase leading below the church and he enters a secret door with some kind of a key. I think the master is down there. Down there below the church, maybe in a secret vault. I think we're getting somewhere. But Laura, do you know where the key is? Well, I'd say he keeps it on him. Can you show me to the door? Of course. Great. Let me ask you if you questions first. Okay, but we have to hurry. What are the children's plans? The children are setting up hospitals all over the place. I think they're trying to get people to trust them. We can say that's the stupidest thing I've ever heard. Actually, it's a good way to manipulate people. And this master is damn good at it. No, Laura. I meant that's the stupidest thing I've heard from you. You're paranoid, aren't you? Excuse me? You heard me. Oh, that's real funny. Look at... I'm in the middle of this day in and day out. You have a problem with how I do this. You just keep it to yourself. Got it. What are you gonna do? Why in some more? And with that, she attacks. Yeah, we insult Lashar in his faith up and down and he doesn't attack. But we insult Laura, our ally, and she turns hostile. Or instead of insulting her, we can say so. They're building hospitals as a recruitment tool. Is it working? Hi, it's your looks that way. I mean, people are flocking to their church. I can't they see? It's a fake. Are you sure it is? For one thing, people seem to disappear a lot around here. While the number of nightkin are slowly growing. And this makes sense. When added to the information, we got at the Mariposa Military Base. Remember in Richard Gray's log, we learned that his main reason for leaving the military base and coming to the cathedral was so that he could acquire more biomass. We just learned from Doc Wu that he doesn't put people to sleep, but that the night kin do. And that the nightkin sometimes used Dr. Wu's drugs to put them to sleep. Why are they putting them to sleep so they can kidnap them and bring them to the master? Why does the master need them so that the master can consume them? And turn them into super mutants. And this explains why the people keep disappearing, but the nightkin seem to grow. The people vanishing are being turned into nightkin and other mutants. And this explains why the master's recruitment standards don't appear to be too high. You don't even have to believe in the unity to join the children of a cathedral, because after all, you're just going to be consumed by the unity and become part of it. Your faith in it is irrelevant. With that, she brings us to the north-eastern corner of the church and unlocks a door. She then brings us past his staircase and down a hallway to the west. Only Morpheus has the key to this door. I must leave now to let Nicole know what's going on here. If we try to talk with her again, she says, please, I have to get away from here before they find out who I am. With that, Laura walks away. So she brought us to the door that leads underground, but she doesn't have the key, and this door can't be picked, but she surmised that Morpheus has the key. And Morpheus is at the top of the tower. So to continue, we must go upstairs. With Lashers badge in hand, we can explore this second floor. We find three rooms, and in two of them we find the Nightkin. However, the Nightkin on this floor are always hostile. Even if we're wearing children of the Cathedral robes, if we're travelling with any companion, this includes the followers of the apocalypse travelling with us and dogmaid, dogmaid whom we can't tell to wait anywhere. We could talk to them and show them our red badge if we didn't have any of these companions, but since we do, they're all going to attack, which kind of defeats the point of wearing the robe to begin with. But we gotta keep this owner inventory anyway, because Morpheus won't talk with us unless we're wearing it. So by passing the two rooms to the left, which just have Nightkin in them, we can open the door to the right, which has a man in a robe. But this isn't Morpheus, this man appears to be insane. Every time we try to talk with him, he says something else that's just random and nonsensical. Your poetry sucks, man. It sucks, sucks, sucks. I want a horse. I need a horse. Bring me a horse, dammit. A horse. Shut up, you jerk. Pull yourself together. Your fools to cry for me. Never cry over spilled milk, or damaged goods. I just want to set the world on fire. So are penguins and gyro buffalo. They shoot them out of great big bison guns. You gotta watch out for those buffalo women. They'll drop a bison on you so fast you won't know what hit you. Ah! I used to live in Pentington, British Columbia, or maybe I saw it on a map of the old days. Those were good old days. Wish I'd been alive back then. Why can't I be the important one for a change? I'm bored. What's worse, I've been screwed over. It isn't fun anymore. You ever got the feeling you were just strings and they didn't bother to hang you? I'm all over the floor. Doggun, and I'm a puzzle. Will you help me put myself together? Why do you think they call him the master? And then there were the ones who lost their minds completely. I wish they were dead. Yeah, he goes on and on and on. I finally just got tired. I didn't bother to exhaust every crazy thing he could say. So moving on, we claim this second staircase to the third floor. But this time the night kin are patrolling the hallway. We simply can't avoid them if we're here with companions. So putting on our power armor and taking out our plasma rifle, we can kill the night kin. The night kin are just super mutants who are using stealth boys. We learn later during the events of Fallon Vegas that prolonged use of stealth boys has psychological effects on the night kin, giving them schizophrenia. But apparently this early in Fallout's history, they have yet to suffer from schizophrenia. When the night kin are dead, we can loot. We find stealth boys on their corpses, which can come in handy. In the bookshelf to the west, we find two books, a first aid manual, and a scout handbook. In the bookcase in the room in the middle, we find a big book of science, a Dean's book of electronics, and a Guns and Bullets. There's a locked foot locker in this room, inside we just find a 10 mil, and a few other minor goods. And here's where having the followers of the apocalypse here just gets frustrating. We already have four companions counting dogmaid, with all four of the followers that brings our companions up to eight. This hallway is so narrow, that I constantly got stuck in these doorways just waiting for someone to move to leave one hex open so that I could move forward. Moving to the room to the east, the bookshelf is empty, but there is a lock around the ground that we have to unlock. We find quite a lot of ballistic ammunition, including dynamite and flares. But that's it for floor number three, so next we'll take the staircase to the top floor, floor number four. Thankfully the nightkin are in their own room. We see Morpheus in the room to the east, but he, like the nightkin, is hostile on sight if we come here with companions, so in order to capture this conversation, I had to come back on a separate game save after having killed dogmaid, since there's no way I could have dismissed him. But if we're alone, we can address Morpheus. I don't remember inviting anyone to my room, and yet I have a visitor. Why? There are a few ways to go about this. First we can pretend to be a child of the cathedral. Hi there, I'm Oxhorn. What's your name? I asked the questions not you. Now tell me what you are doing here. I'm just lost. Well my child, it's quite dangerous to explore places where you do not belong. Where were you heading that you ended up in my private chambers? Well I'm new, and I was looking for the bathroom. What have the other high priests sent me up here? Ah, that would be Lasha. He so loves getting the worshipers in trouble. This is your lucky day, my ignorant little friend. You may leave now without incident. With that we can leave peacefully, but if we try to talk with him again, you will want. Gods! Ooh, that was creepy. Alternatively, we can be upfront with him and say, well, I'm not really lost. How surprising. Now tell me why you are here. Because I have a deal for you. What could you possibly offer me? I'd like to offer you some information about your enemies. And who might my enemies be? Well the followers of the apocalypse for one. Tell me what you know. Let's just say I know something to help you out against them. Give me the information, or dire slow, lingering death. Not so fast. I want to know what I can get from my information. You may keep your life. Now tell me what you know. We can try to bypass this guy and say, no, no, no, no, I'm not going to talk with the hired help. I'd like to give your master a bit of information about my vault. I do not have a master you imbecile. Then who do you call the master? Doesn't he control you? No one controls me. Here and I are partners. It doesn't matter. I have information about a vault he would want. Fine. I will take you to the master. But if you are lying, you will know. Yeah, well you better not backstab me. You think the master would be happy if you killed a vaultweller? Ah, so you are the vaultweller I've been hearing about. Surprised? I have my sources. Now I will take you as a gift to the master. He'll be very pleased. And with that, he teleports us to the master. This is a great way to get there quickly, but we're going to take the long route. If we explain why we're here by saying, oh, you know, one of the other brothers sent me up here. I suspect you are a spy sent by the followers. I may be wrong, but I do not take chances. You must be eliminated. He turns hostile. Or we could pretend to be a spy from the master by saying I was sent here by the master. He wants me to spy on you. A spy? Very foolish of you. It will be difficult to report to him when you are dead. Won't it? Either of those two options and any option that insults him causes Morpheus in the three night kin on this floor to all turn hostile. This is a tricky fight, but the good news is that Morpheus is stuck in this room. And if we position ourselves correctly, we can force the night kin to fire upon us one at a time. When the night kin are dead, we can load Morpheus's body. We find some super stim packs, a hunting rifle, and two children with a cathedral badges, a red one like the one we already have and a black one. This black one is what we'll use to head downstairs. Exploring the rooms to the west, we find an electronic lock pick in one of the bookcases, and in a locker between two beds, we find Tesla armor, along with a power fist. The Tesla armor has a completely unique icon. It almost looks like power armor, but on our character, it looks like simple metal armor. It has many similarities to power armor, but quite a few differences as well. It only weighs 35 pounds, compared to the hardened T-51 suit of power armors 100 pounds, or 85 pounds if not hardened. At first, it looks much inferior to the power armor, with a DR of 20 and a DT of 4, compared to the hardened power armors DR of 50 and DT of 13. However, when we take a look at its resistances, we see that it has the same laser resistance as the hardened T-51 power armor. It has 30 greater plasma and electrical DR, but 40 less explosive DR. So the Tesla armor is actually a superior piece of armor against energy weapons, and this is confirmed by the lore behind this armor, which we actually don't learn until the events of Fallout 2. The Tesla armor was manufactured before the war, based on plans created by none other than Nikola Tesla. In the Fallout universe, the United States government confiscated the plans after his death. It is fantastic against energy weapons, but since there are superior choices against ballistic damage, its popularity was very niche. The will learn from Fallout 2, that some suits found their way into National Guard depots. If one doesn't have the hardened T-51 suit of power armor, this is an essential suit of armor for an upcoming battle. Now that we have the key, we can descend the tower. But before we do notice that we see the bone yard off in the distance. On the right, I think we see Editum, but on the left, I think that's the library. Back on the ground floor, we can use the black key to open the locked door to the east. But as soon as we open it, even if we're wearing a cathedral robe, we get attacked by a nightkin hiding behind a wall at the end of the hall. His aggression and our subsequent defense turns most of the children in the cathedral hostel, and we have to take him down. When done, we can leave the ones who didn't go hostile, go down the hallway, and take this staircase to the basement. In the basement we can move south, we find a big book of science lying on the ground next to a bookshelf, and moving far to the east, we find a dead end. But Katja says, there's something funny about that bookcase on the east wall. Looks like it's hiding something. We can nose around here, but we don't have to for long. Because our companion sandbox script apparently doesn't consider secret doors. Tyco just walks right through it and opens it up for us. But if we don't have a companion, it's much harder to get through. The black badge doesn't work on this door. We can't use lockpicking to pick it. We can't use repair to repair it. Using science doesn't tell us anything about it, and we don't find a lever or a switch by the bookcase. The only way I was able to open it was to either wait for a companion to walk through, or we can wait for it to open on its own. And out from the cave, walks a man named Jeremiah. Jeremiah will be hostile if we're not wearing a disguise, but if we are wearing a disguise, he just walks on by. And if we do choose to talk with him, we can simply tell him that we are on an errand for the master. On the other side of the wall, we find ourselves in a cave. Filled with sentar and floaters. This is the secret entrance to the Los Angeles Vault. The Los Angeles Vault was built by Vault-Tech, but it was never given a number. And that's because it was built as a demonstration vault. It was the first vault ever built by Vault-Tech. They built it as a proof of concept when trying to secure government funds to start the project, and as a marketing tool for convincing prospective residents. As a demonstration vault, it's a fully functional vault, complete with fusion reactor, but it's much smaller than a typical vault and its layout is much different. When the bombs dropped on October 23rd, 2077, the people of Los Angeles flocked to this vault, since no one was living in it at the time. It was a demonstration vault. It is this vault that kept them alive long enough for them to emerge to become the founders of Additum and the gangs of the Boneyard. After fighting our way through the master's pets, we arrive at the Vault door. The Vault door is guarded by two super-neutened guards, wielding powerful high-tech weapons. We can get by these guys if traveling by our self, and if we're wearing a cathedral robe, however we have to pass the right speech checks. When they stop us and ask us what we are doing, we can't antagonize them and instead have to answer, I'm on important business, you have no right to stop and question me. When he waves us on, we have to say blessings to your brother, but if we question him, he becomes suspicious and attacks. Alternatively, we can find our way through. In this cave, we see a great deal of the master's army, and it makes us wonder when exactly does the invasion start? Is there ever a moment in the game when the master invades the wasteland? Does he ever attempt to find Vault 13 on his own? Well, in the original release of Fallout 1, in addition to the 150-day water chip timer, there was an invisible countdown timer of 500 days that started the moment we left Vault 13. This timer gave us 500 days to blow up the Mariposa military base and defeat the master before the master's army invaded Vault 13. We are given no indication how far along this timer is at any moment in the game. Instead, we see an end of game cinematic, like the ones we saw in yesterday's video, once 500 days expire. However, we make it even worse for ourselves if we higher the water merchants to deliver water to Vault 13. The idea goes that in order to deliver water to the Vault, we had to give the location of Vault 13 to the water merchants, and somehow the children of the cathedral got their hands on this information, whether by a treachery from the water merchants or infiltration we don't know, and delivered it to the master. If we tell the water merchants where they can find Vault 13, our 500-day countdown timer until the mutant invasion instead becomes 400. On day 90, the mutants sack the LA Boneyard. On day 110, they destroy the Nuckropolis. On day 140, they decimate the hub. On day 170, they destroy the brotherhood of steel. On day 200, they make it all the way to Junktown. On day 230, they obliterate Shady Sands, and then on day 400 or 500, depending on our choice, they finally make it to Vault 13 in the game ends. However, the developers patched this out of the game in a downloadable update, update version 1.1. The reasoning I think is that they didn't want to punish people for playing the game. There's this invisible countdown timer. You have no idea that the mutants are on their way to Vault 13, and the more you play the game, the more you explore the world the worse it gets for you. Kind of disappointed a lot of players, who invested all that time in their characters, only to realize that they had to start completely over. So patch 1.1 of Fallout added years to this mutant invasion, but those playing the game straight from the CD can still experience the mutant invasion. Knowledge of this game mechanic will become important later. We can use our science skill on some of the computers inside the entrance to the demonstration vault to discover the location of the Mara Posea military base if we hadn't done so already. There are some chems and medicine in a locker, but otherwise the entrance is empty, so to move forward, we can take the elevator to the west to floor 2. Now if we arrive at floor 2 in Power Armor and go guns blazing, we miss a little bit of lore, so exploring first in a children of the cathedral robe, we can move south to open a door into what appears to be some sort of operating room or laboratory. Here we find some human mad scientists. The mad scientists greet us and ask us what we are doing here. We can say that we're just checking up on their progress, and they reveal that things aren't going well. They've been injecting the FEV directly into the pineal gland of presumably their human captives, but they're not getting the results they had hoped for. Doing so results in increased psychic ability, but the side effect is that the subjects become terminally insane and must be sequestered and nullified to keep them from harming themselves or others. So FEV unlocks psychic abilities in humans? We can ask him where these subjects are kept and he says in a room northwest of here. We can betray ourselves by asking, hey what is FEV? And he's almost offended and begins to look at us suspiciously. Alternatively, we can try giving him advice and saying, well you've tried injecting it in the pineal gland? Why don't you try injecting it directly in the amygdala? And he says, what an intriguing idea. I must try it at once. But we never find out the results of this experiment. Moving to the east, we find their super mutant guard. This is Vincent, and he is here to make sure the mad scientists stay on task. Leave them alone he says and get out. No one is allowed in here while they are sleeping. Moving south we see some yellow force fields, behind which are a bunch of test subjects. Sadly our radio doesn't work on these, but we can access a wall mounted terminal to the east to free the captives. We're free, they scream we're free. And they get destroyed by a blast of psychic energy, but at least we get 2000 experience for releasing them. Who killed them? Was it the master? Could the master be a psychic? Or did they suffer a side effect from all of the experiments done to them? With this bottom half explored we can head north. Here we see three rooms. One appears to be a seminar room we see two mutants, giving a presentation to three children of the cathedral. I believe in the master. His will is our salvation, says a child, and the mutants say, pray with us for peace child. The unity will prevail if we are all strong, meditate on the quality of strength. Heading out and moving to the room to the left, these are some of the other test subjects that the mad scientists told us about the ones who had developed psychic powers by having FEV injected into their pineal lands. Directly in front of the door we find a man in a green shirt named Gideon. He's a normal looking person, but we see that he's wearing a crown. Jason is a living god, only the nullified may pass, says Gideon. Who's Jason we can ask and he goes, Jason? Who's Jason? And with that we can go, yeah, are you the experiments I'm looking for? And he says the walls also have mines. I saw you tomorrow. I'll take that as a yes we can say. And then he says meeting of the soul, melded with to protect the master of all. And we get the impression that he's trying to tell us something. We can say, I see. So how do I protect myself from the protectors of the master? And he says there is only peace and joining. The price, the pain, one must be blind, nullified. And with that we understand the master does indeed have psychic powers. Psychic powers that allows him to communicate with his army, but powers that can cause pain or death to humans who are not protected. We can say great. So how do I join? So I too can get a nullifier. And he says you cannot kill the genius of the all you. But we can reassure him and say, don't worry, I don't want to kill. I want to worship. He says I will annoy you. I must give what I must not. When we say annoyed, annoyed me with what, we gain a thousand experience points for convincing the psychic to give us a psychic nullifier. The psychic nullifier appears as a crown in our inventory. As long as we have it in our inventory, we are protected from the master's psychic attacks, the results of which we saw on clear display when we released the captives from their cells. Inside this room we find three other people talking with Lucy. She says, there's no place like home. There's no place like home. There's no place like home and she pays us back and forth. What about this place we can say? Isn't this your home? My home is uh yeah here. Yeah it's here. This is my home and she jumps up and down. I'm so happy. You can't believe how happy this makes me. I think I'm going to go punch the wall for a while. And if we try to talk with her again, she says I'm busy. I almost have the solution to the environmental problems screwing this world over. But I can't stop thinking about purple dinosaurs. Is this a problem? The third man in the room says I'm tired of living. The fourth man named Wiggum says the asphalt shall run red. I will crush. We can say what are you talking about? And he says only the powerful can pass but they will be kept from passing. But I have to see the master we can say and he says Gideon. Gideon speaks the way. So this fellow points us towards Gideon where we can get a psychic nullifier. We can try to talk with him again. He says I will stop the motor. The master gave me the power. Even though his name is Wiggum we can say okay Hank I'd like to meet the master. How do I get there? Each of these be wilderness conversations points us towards Gideon. So looks like we already have what we need from these guys. Now that we have the psychic nullifier in hand we can explore the final room on this floor to the northeast. Here we find two mutants having a conversation. If we're disguised he treats us like a child of the cathedral. They don't provide any information. They're just here to get us in trouble in case we're not disguised. Which brings us back to our infiltration. If we're not disguised this room presents one of the most difficult fights in the entire game. But mainly if you're trying to keep your companions alive you'll notice here that I don't have any of my companions with me. That's because I left them on the floor above just so that they would survive. Even so I still had to replay this battle over and over and over again if I wanted to keep dogmeat alive. The key was to make sure that the mad scientists all attacked dogmeat. Dogmeats tough enough to withstand their attacks. And then for the vaultweller to hide behind walls after each attack when possible. Otherwise they terraced to shreds with their miniguns. Then when the mutants from the north attack step outside a door to fire a shot then duck back in when they're in combat. In this way after probably an hour of replaying this one battle I was finally successful. Even if we're not dressed in a cathedral robe we can still talk with Gideon to get a psychic nullifier. And with the psychic nullifier in hand we can head back to the elevator and take it to the third floor. Upon arrival we see biomass all over the floors and walls. Catgea says, oh I think I'm gonna be sick and we see an open door to the east. Inside we find a bunch of Mr. Handys and iPods but they're all hostile. They're quick and are likely to kill companions pretty swiftly but if the vaultweller can grasp their attention he has a good shot of living through their fairly weak damage. Long enough to tear them down one by one. Alternatively if one is wearing the children of the cathedral robe the robots say peace to you. I guess even the robots have been brainwashed. Continuing down the hallway we find our roaming super mutants named Vicious. If wearing a robe he says the will of the master prevails. What news do you have for me? If we threaten him he attacks if we say the war goes well. He says your manner betrays you intruder I will end the threat here and he attacks. The only way past is to say that we have a message for the master from his lieutenant. If we do he says then use the door and be aware of the corridor. I assume you have your protection in place. He must be referring to the psychic nullifier. Even he is afraid of the master's psychic powers. We can respond by saying of course thank you Unity prevails and Vicious continues on his way. Or if not wearing a costume we can wait for Vicious to walk into the locker room. Then heading south we can turn east where we find a room filled in some sort of biological sludge covering the floor in puddles and creeping into the crevice of every monitor and computer. Here we find four children of the cathedral and two super mutants. If wearing a robe they do not attack they say we do the work of the master. But if not they are hostile. Here a lot of AP is useful because the ones and robes go down pretty quickly. We can thereby quickly level the playing field. But I also had to replay this multiple times to avoid dog meat's death. Vicious will likely be drawn to the noise. He comes from the western strikes hard so we should pay attention to him when he arrives. When the room is clear we can move northwest where we find a door into the locker room. We can pick the lock with our luck picking skill and we have to pick the locks of all of these lockers. Inside one we find nearly 400 caps. Another is filled with kems at least two of every type of kem possible. In one we find stacks of hundreds of 5 millimeter ammunition, microfusion cells and small energy cells. And in the last tall one a bunch of thrown explosives next to this is a short one with a bunch of rockets. With this side of the vault floor we now have an open path to the master. And I hate to do this to you I really do but sadly I'm out of time but never fear we'll confront the master and uncover his story in his own words in tomorrow's episode. In that episode we'll also go over every single possible game ending in all of Fallout 1. I publish a video every single week here on my channel so if you want to make sure you don't miss that episode be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. I have a shirt shop with unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come out of a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wider ray of colors. My designs come on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, prints etc. So if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way consider becoming one of my patrons on Patreon. But more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you tomorrow morning bright and early as we finally confront the master.