In our last episode, we ran over a ghoul named Lumpy with our car. We lost an arm wrestling match, which caused us to learn what a ball gag was. We delivered some toys to an old ghoul and we threw a dwarf in a well. And none of that was even related to the plot. We left Broken Hills unable to complete the town's primary task, which was to fix the air purifier in its uranium mine. Marcus, the peaceful super mutant, told us that he couldn't join our party until we fixed the purifier. He recommended that we head to a place called New Reno to get the parts. But you know what, I've been hearing of this place called Redding, which is another nearby mining town. I suppose we should follow Zioces' instructions, but my gut tells me we might be able to find what we need at Redding. So by passing New Reno for now, we head west of Broken Hills towards Redding. When we arrive, we thinkfully don't run over anyone. There's a tent to this south of us, a fellow in there who doesn't want to talk to us, and a number of people milling around town. They just say, yup. The building above us is a Scorty's Ace and City Hall. A casino and City Hall combo? Seems like a strange mix. Heading inside, we find gamblers at the tables. There's a big row of slot machines against the wall, making a huge racket. Ding, dingity ding, ding ding caching. We can try our luck. You see a slot machine. It's shiny frame and golden handle gleams seductively beneath the lights. It's coin slot back in view, and you fuel your face flush with anticipation. Are we still gambling or is this something else? Well, we'll insert five bucks into the coin slot. The rolls pin on the machine. Plum, plum, melon, nothing. Ah, well better luck next time. Turning around, we can place some roulette. Minimum bet five bucks. Place your bets. We'll wait your five. Sorry, better luck next time. This gambling is a scintillating experience. Was about this time that the patrons began to get nervous that I was walking around with unholstered weapons, so putting them away for now, we can talk to the guy in armor standing on the eastern side of the gambling hall. Hello there. Welcome to the fine city of Reading. And welcome to my casino. Everyone's an ace here at a Scorities. I am a Scority, proprietary and mayor of this fine town. Oh, so that's why it's a casino and city hall mix. What do you do here, we can ask? And he says, I run this here, casino. And I help to run things in town too. I keep track of things like deeds and such. Deeds? Deeds to what we can ask? And he says, all kinds of private property. Why right now, I have a gym dandy of a deed for sale. It's the deed to the great one-a-bingo mine. Just outside a town. I can sell it to you for only a thousand bucks too. Special offer. Just your luck to hit me on a generous day like this. That sounds interesting. Tell me more we can say. And he says, well, there are some dang critters in there that need to be killed before anyone will work the mine. If you were to buy the deed and then kill off the critters and festinate, I'd be happy to buy the deed back off, you're for a nice profit. This is a very complicated roundabout way of just asking us to go kill the critters. Critters, we can ask. What kind of critters? We call them want-a-mingos, he says. There are some kind of an all-fired, weird critter with nasty teeth and suckers or some such. Not too intelligent, but nasty up close. I see we can say, and you want me to get rid of them? You've got it, he says. I knew you weren't as slow as you look. You can be right quick when you're of a mind to be. So how much do I stand to make on my thousand dollar investment we can say? And he says, heck, more than double, I figure that's the least your time's worth to you. I couldn't afford to pay any more than that. There's still a lot of work that needs to be put back into the mine before I can start to turn a profit with it. Why don't you clear it out yourself if it's so profitable we can ask? And he says, I can't really do that. I'm not a real danger-seeking kind of guy. I know my strengths and fighting just isn't one of them. Now you, you look like a real tough ombre. This should be right up your alley. If interested, we can say, okay, I'll buy it. And he says, I'll go ahead and record the great one-amingo mines deed in your name. Let me know when you've got it all cleared out, and I'll buy it back from you. Now that we're a landowner, we can ask him what else is going on here in town. He says lately our gold shipments have started to slow down, because the miners are spending too much time flying high on jet. When we ask him if there's any work here in Redding, he says, well, there's the sheriff, and then the mine owners are looking for someone to retrieve some kind of part for one of their machines. We can start by asking about the sheriff, and he says, I understand that Sheriff Earl Marion is looking for someone to fill in for him until his bum leg heals up a fetch. You might go talk to him. His office is just south of here across the street. When we ask about the mine owners, he says, I don't know too much about it. You should go talk to either Dangerous Dan McGrew at the Morningstar Mine, or to Marge Le Barge at the Kakowif Mine. They're both just north of the downtown area here, across from the graveyard. When we ask him if he knows anything about a garden of Eden Creation Kit, he says, a garden of Eden Creation Kit, I think they made Vault City out of one of those. All of those vaults were supposed to have one, but they're sure ain't one around here nowhere. So we met Mayor Scotty of Redding. Interesting fellow. Nearby we find a barred window, and on the other side we see the cash tender. What do you want, he says? I'd like to trade some things in we can say. And without another word, he opens up his inventory. He has nothing to sell, but he does have $1,580 on his inventory. I've read that sometimes he can carry as much as $5,000, making him a great vendor to sell all the goods we're about to pilfer from the town of Redding. Head north we can finish exploring his casino. There are two armed guards guarding his office, but we can walk right in. There's nothing in the desk, but we find a copy of guns and bullets in the bookshelf. Heading through a doorway to the right, we arrive at a bit of a supply room. And here we find a ladder leading to a storage room beneath the casino. And it's connected to a sprawling series of tunnels. Here we find a bunch of broken slot machines in some furniture, a couple of crates. There's a foot locker on the ground, but it's empty. We could go through a door here to explore the tunnels, but before we do let's finish exploring the town. Maybe we'll find more quests that send us down here later. Just south of here we find a locked metal door. On the other side of this door is the cash here, a refrigerator and a truck a cash. But this door is heavily guarded. Don't touch that door again, says the guard on the other side of the door. And if we were to pick it, he and the whole town are ready to turn the hostel. So to avoid this turn of events, we can not pick the door and instead head out of the casino to continue exploring. Mayor Scottie said something about a sheriff, so crossing the street and head in south, we can enter the sheriff's office. We find him standing by a Nukka Cola machine. How do there are my name's Earl Marion. I'm the sheriff in these here, parts. Sounds downright picturesque, don't it? Well, that's my job. If we're feeling honoring, we can say, I'm here in town to kick ass and chew bubble gum. And I'm all out of gum. This is of course a reference to the 1988 film They Live. I have come here to chew bubble gum and kick ass. And I'm all out of bubble gum. But the quote was made more famous by Duke Nukka. But if we choose this, he says, I can't believe that you'd use such a corny line. You've been reading too many pulp westerns. Here's one for you. You're gonna slap leather and draw that smoke wagon. Or you're just gonna stand there and sweat. This is a veiled reference at a famous scene in Tombstone. Go ahead, skin it. Skin that smoke wagon and see what happens. Oh. You know what I do? Something or just stand there and believe. Though it gets it kind of wrong, he says, slap leather and draw that smoke wagon. When in Tombstone, he said, skin that smoke wagon. And he says, stand there and sweat. When in Tombstone, he says, stand there and bleed. At any rate, we can provoke this guy into violence and say, okay, Sheriff, draw. In which case, he in the town turn hostile. So avoiding conflict, we can instead say, as the sheriff, what do you do here in town? And he says, keep the piece mostly. At least that's what I'd be doing if I didn't have this leg all busted up. What happened to your leg, we can say? And he says, I was going out to meet a caravan and it was late. So I took a nap. Next thing I knew, a damn gekko was trying to make a lunch out of my kneecap. Damn thing, almost had it too. Another good bite and I'd be sitting down permanent like. So your leg's still in a bad shape, huh? And he says, well, I wasn't much of a dancer before this happened. And I reckon I won't be afterwards, neither. I can gimp around, but Doc Johnson said I better not if I want a heel right. Sure could use some help, though. Who's Doc Johnson we can ask? And he says, good old painless Doc Johnson's our town doc. You have a too thick or a broken bone, he'll set you to right. He also sells medicine. Oh, kinds of medicine if you're getting my drift. For whatever else, yeah. He doesn't seem to be too ashamed of drug pushing for a sheriff. Sounds like a helpful guy to have around we can say, where is he here in town? And the sheriff says the Doc's office is at the west end of downtown here. He's just about always happy to see new patients. So you needed some help, Sheriff, we can ask. And he says, yeah, sure could use some help with a couple of things. Just part time like. It pays real good and you'd be doing a good thing for the town of Redden too. The widow Rooney is way behind on her rent. Her house is just across the alley from here to the west. You just have to kick her out of the house, unless she can come up with the rent she owes to Mayor Escorty. When we ask him how much she owes Mayor Escorty, he says, I don't know. But I bet she can tell you. If we agree to do what he says, great, thanks for your help. Just come back here when you finish and I'll pay you and see if we can dig up something else for you to do. Oh, and one more thing he says, I almost forgot. Here's a badge. You may need it. Inspecting the badge in our inventory, we find a Sheriff's badge. A badge worn by the Sheriff of a town. It weighs one pound. We can't equip it or really do much with it, but might as well put it on an item slot here to play the part of Sheriff. Explore in the Sheriff's office, we find a working Nukikola machine. If we put a dollar inside, it ejects a Nukikola out onto the ground. Inspecting the lockers, we find some antidote, some Stimpax and a hunting rifle and one, some shotgun shells and a shotgun in another, add more Stimpax into third. There's a small room to the south. Here we find a foot locker with a 14-millimeter pistol and some ammunition. And in the desk, we find some jet. Okay, I think I understand exactly why the Sheriff wasn't to put off with the idea that his doctor was Sellon Drugs. Heading to the western part of the Sheriff's office, we find the cells. Each of the cells are locked. We can pick them and the sheriff doesn't seem to mind. Only a few of them are occupied, but even if we head inside, none of them have much to say. They treat us like the Reading Townsfolk saying welcome to the big city and good day to you. Well, it looks like we have to go boot a widow. Should be fun. Cross in the street, we find a wickety shack to the south. And here we find Old Widow Rooney. Hello there, young fella. What an old Widow Rooney do, Faria. I was just looking around and wondered who lived here we can say. Nice to meet you, Widow Rooney. Nice to meet you too. Not often I have polite collars. Mostly they just come into threaten a frail old lady. People are threatening you? Why, we can ask. Well, I owe a score to six months in back rent. $120 for this flea hostel. I just don't have it. Some of my brawman took sick and died and I couldn't pay. If I don't get him the money soon, he's going to have the sheriff evict me. Evict a harmless old crone like you, we can say that's not nice. Who would do that? A scorety, she says. A scorety is nobody but the greatest, most connive and slipperyest low down weasel crawling gutless slam ball in this year town. He's the mayor as well as my landlord. Oh, that a scorety we can say, well why didn't she say so? I see, she says. So you're the one doing a scorety's dirty work now. What are you going to do? Kill me? Kick me out into the cold? We can be mean to the sold lady and say the outside air will be good for you. Move it, Granny. If you know what's good for you. And she says, threatening a frail old woman with gross bodily harm. You and a scorety are cut from the same cloth. All right, I'll leave, but I'll leave you a little extra something from my gypsy ancestors. She makes a sign with her hands. There you have the evil eye on you now. I hope you like it. We can part by saying, I've got a couple of gestures that you'll like too. Here they are and we make a few choice ones. Now get out. Well, that she walks on out of the shack and when we head back to the sheriff, he says you did fine work with that widow runie. Here's your 100 bucks. Or instead of kicking her out, we can say, I'd hate to see you kicked out, widow runie. Why don't you let me pay your back rent for you? I have little use of money. I'm the chosen one. And she says, oh, I'd hate to take money from someone touched in the head. Mr. Chosen One. We can say, it's nothing. I'm happy to do it. Here's the 120 bucks. Well, that she says, thanks for helping me to keep my home. I sure couldn't have done it without you. Now why don't you let widow runie give you a great big kiss? We can say, oh, well, if you must, I was curious about that well you have outside. And she says, the well? Well, well. Nothing much to tell about it, really. It's been dry for a good long time now. I could swear that I hear noises coming from it late at night, but my hearing ain't what it used to be. Noise is we can say? What kind of noises? I'm probably just hearing things anyhow, but it seems sort of like a scratch in a digging sound. Probably just dogs or something. So, scratching noises coming from a well. Sure enough, look at there it is. We'll have to check it out. In her dresser we find a box of noodles and some spiked knuckles. Ouch. Odd possessions for a sweet old lady to have. Headed out to her pasture, she only has one Brahman left. Was either remains of at least three other Brahman, so times have been tough for poor old lady runie. Heading to the well, sure enough, we can crawl into it, and we again arrive at a series of tunnels, snaking beneath the town of Redding. But before we go off and explore, let's see if we can find any quests that point us here. Heading back topside we can go back to the sheriff to turn it our quest. You did a real nice thing for the widow runie, made friends all around and kept the piece, thanks. You're ready for another job? I think you've got a real knack for it. I hear that the miners from both the Morningstar and Kakaweef mines here in town are fixing to stir up a ruckus at Luz Malmut Saloon. I'll pay a 300 bucks to break it up. You get over there right away. It's right across the street, down towards the west side of town. Okay, now to find the Malmut Saloon, but first cross in the street, we can explore this grey structure. Inside we find a town's person and his son. What's up? You're funny, Lukin. Charmin. In one of the buckshelves we find more jet, and in an ice cooler on the ground we find a Nuka Kola and a bunch of other food stuffs. Head and out and move in south. We find a shack just south of the hospital. Inside we find a woman and her son. I am Madame Majeska, she says. What do you wish of me? What do you do here, Madame Majeska? We can ask, and she says, Lately I don't do much at all. I used to run part of Luz's operation at the Malmut Saloon, but we had a fallen out so I quit. Looks as though a lot of people here are chem users we can ask, what's going on in town lately? She says, most of the ramble are just working to get enough jet. They need something to take their minds off this place. Jet, we can ask, what's jet? Jet, she says, is a wonderful chem that helps me to take the edge off of this miserable existence, darling. When we ask her if she's heard any interesting rumors, she says, all I hear are about politics. And that always seems to be the big stir in discussion. Politics, we can say, what do you mean? And she says, have you ever seen a greased Brahmin contest? And we can say, nope, never heard anything like that. Tell me about them. And she says, well, what they do is they grease up a Brahmin calf, and then everyone in the crowd tries to catch the calf. If you can't catch it yourself, you make damn sure nobody else can either. I don't see what that has to do with politics, we can say. And she says, in this game, redding is the greased Brahmin, and a golden one at that. New Reno, the New California Republic, and Vault City are all trying to catch us. Or at least keep the others from catching us. What do you mean we can say? And she says, here in redding, we mine gold. Then we ship it to New Reno, the NCR, and Vault City in return for goods. Each of those places would like to have the gold, and the trade all to themselves. Well, why don't they just attack and take it then we can ask? And she says, we're big enough, and far enough away, to make a takeover expensive as well as dangerous. Much more efficient to have a join willingly. The three powers are trying to get redding to choose which side to ally themselves with. They've all got powerful allies in town, and it looks like things are coming to a head. Soon, redding is going to have to make a choice. The grease on this Brahmin calf is getting a bit thin. Soon, one of the powers is going to have to make a major play to take redding before the others do. When that happens, people are going to get hurt. A lot of people. Who's working for whom we can ask? And she says, I'm not altogether sure, but I think the lineups like this. Dan McGrues, all for New Reno, Marge La Barge is for the NCR, and Doc Johnson is for Vault City. I don't know yet who may or is Scorty as for. Marge La Barge is the owner of the Kakowif mine. It and the Morningstar mine are the only two working mines left in redding. I think that Marge is more of an NCR type. I don't think she likes the Prudishness, but she recognizes power when she sees it. Dangerous Dan McGrues, he is the owner of the Morningstar mine. I think Dan is leaning more towards New Reno if I had to guess. He likes his miners, doped up and happy. Painless Doc Johnson's sort of a mystery man. I don't know where he came from, but he is a real MD, all right? Only place he'd get trained in like that is Vault City. I'm betting he's been planted here to further their interests. He must have pissed off someone there to get the assignment though. Those v-seers don't like the outside much. And Marge Scorty is a man that knows how to play both sides while he's stealing the middle. He's got a few scruples left, but mostly he'll do what's right for redding in order to keep his own interests safe. How can these people help a takeover we can ask? And she says, I think that the folks here will follow Marge Scorty's lead. He's a crook, but people trust that. He'll go with whoever's strongest. You see, whatever's good for a Scorty is also going to be good for redding. I think he just hasn't figured out who's the closest to being on top yet, but he's gonna choose soon. Well, why did you say that you thought people were gonna get hurt we can ask? And she says people are gonna get hurt because this kind of change doesn't come easy. Those who think that they are not gonna get the prize get it in their mind to not let anyone else get it either. The only way to avoid that is if we decide to go with one of the powers and make a quick alliance before the others catch on. Well, we just had a whole lot of redding politics dumped on our lap. But what about you? Why do they call you Madame Majesco we can ask? And she says, I used to work in the Malamute Saloon. As part of that job, people called me Madame. The name just stuck even though I don't work there anymore. I think that's all the information we need to know exactly what kind of job she had and what sort of services to expect from the Malamute Saloon. Exploring her home, we find a trunk near her bed. Here we can steal some Xander root healing powder and a small amount of coin. Take that Madame. Heading out we can move north to explore the hospital. Painless Doc Johnson says the sign outside and as we enter, we begin to overhear a conversation. Rat clean real good doctor. You worthless lump of flesh. Rat try real hard to help. I don't know why I put up with you're incompetence. Rat real sorry. Rat act better. You just better or you'll find yourself hot on the street again. I'm just too kind. No doctor. No put rat out. Rat be good. Rat promise. Well, just see that you clean up your Rat then. I'm warning you. Rat be very good. Rat no trouble. Yes well, see that your chores get done. Rat clean and clean. Eat all bad bugs. Keep house clean. And that's another thing. I don't want to see you constantly eating those beetles or roaches or whatnot. Doctor not not rat to get rid of bugs. Okay. Rat save nice bugs for doctor to eat. I don't want to eat them you fool. I just don't want to watch you eat them. Rat not eat bugs. That's right. Don't eat bugs in front of me. I don't care for that nasty crunching sound. Rat just suck on crunchy shells then. Now I don't want you chewing bugs sucking on them, licking them or anything else. Rat no eat bugs. Rat take good care of doctors bugs. Well, now that we've got that settled, did you clean the shelves? Yes doctor. Rat clean all nice doctors, pretty, pretty shelves. Nice shelves all clean. Very well then. What about the floor? It looks dirty. Rat scrub floor again for nice doctor. No what dirty floor for clean doctor. Hmm. I suppose you think you can just lay about now. Is that it? No doctor. No rat. Not do that again. Rat remember. Just see that you keep yourself busy or I'll whip you again. No doctor. No whip rat. Rat be good now. Mind you I don't enjoy it. But you need the discipline rat array. You certainly do. Yes doctor. Doctor always knows best for rat. As long as you remember that rat array. God knows why I take such pains with you. Doctor nice man. Very nice man. Yes well I suppose that I am at that. Well we just learned I think everything we need to know about this nice doctor. Does everyone who has ties to vault city support slavery cheese? We can try to talk to Rat here and he says, Rat sorry. You know understand what you want. So instead we have to talk to this dog on doctor. Hello I'm Doc Johnson he says. And by professional opinion is that you're looking a might poorly. Need me to fix you up? It costs a hundred bucks for him to heal ourselves and the entire party. Which will come in very useful later. And we can ask him some questions. I hear that Redding has been having a problem here with its exports lately we can say. And he says we sure do too much jet not enough work. But where did you hear about that? McClure in vault city told me we can say. And he says I know McClure he's on the vault city council. What did he tell you? We don't find anything interesting if we play Koi. So we can say that mine production is way down and gold prices are way up. That's true says Doc Johnson. The miners here are all getting high on jet instead of working. So exports are down and prices are up. The situation can't last. When we ask him about things going on here in town he says lately it seems as though more miners are spending their time flying on jet than mining. If this keeps up Redding's gold production will come to a halt. New Reno doesn't seem to mind though. What does new Reno have to do with it we can ask? And he says new Reno sells jet pretty cheap. Jets real habit forming like nothing you've ever seen before. They figure that if they get enough people in an area using it those people will do anything to get more. That gives them de facto control of an area like Redding. So we can say if you don't want new Reno to control Redding just who do you want in charge here. And he says well everyone wants a part of the gold here on Redding so we're going to be controlled by someone eventually. I just want us to have the master that's going to do the best job for Redding. And who do you think that is we can say? And he says the way I see it Redding's best chance is with Vault City controlling things here. That's where I'm from so I might be biased but I really do think that Vault City can do a better job of helping the citizens of Redding. Why is that we can say? And he says because they handle Vault City in a just in humane manner. They would do the same for Redding I'm sure of it. And having been there we can say Vault City takes care of their citizens all right but they treat non-citizens like dirt. And he says that's nonsense. Vault City does extend special privileges to citizens but only because they're better qualified to enjoy those things than brutish non-citizens. Besides everyone can qualify for Vault City citizenship if they pass the tests. Yeah tests that are impossible to pass. I'm not sure how people here in Redding would react to rule by Vault City we can say. And he says they'll realize the benefits soon enough. I'm certain that they'll welcome Vault City's administration with open arms. Eventually. All right then why do they call you a painless Doc Johnson we can ask? And he says it's because my patients usually pass out before they get to scream in too much. It's kind of a joke. Great and this is the only town doctor. We can try to barter from medical supplies. He has about 120 bucks to barter with a couple of super stem packs, a small assortment of chems, stem packs and antidote. Also of note if we discover the schematics from the Vault City computers, Doc Johnson can do dermal implants for us. And the name Doc Johnson is another real world reference. Doc Johnson is the name of the world's largest sex toy company. You know because Johnson, Doc Johnson, right. Exploring his clinic we find our first aid kit in the first bookshelf, then moving on to the adjoining room. We find a doctor's bag to antidote into stem pack in the second bookshelf and a first aid manual in the third bookshelf. That's it for the hospital. Now to head north to put a stop to the fighting at the Malamute saloon. But as soon as we head inside we see that the fight has begun. Caminetto, your cacuif minors are all show and no go. I'll show you where to go blast from us, bet. You couldn't show me where to go with a road map. Just because I wouldn't want to get that close to you. Doubt flatter yourself, your little runt. You'd be lucky to get a runt instead of that drilling machine you normally use. Well at least my drill lasts more than 30 seconds. No wonder the morning star's machinery is always breaking down. I'll show you broken down with my fists. Your fists? Your breath is bad enough. I don't know how you could smell that over your own three week stink. Stink? Hell, looking at you causes me enough pain. You don't know nothing about pain but I'll teach you something. You teach me? Yeah that's right because your mama sure didn't. You talking about my mama now ain't that creative. I'll do a better job of creating a new face for you, that old one sure ain't much to look at. You and what army? Just me. That's all it's gonna take. But I bet us morning stars could take you wimpy cacuif anytime. I don't think so. Cacuif rules the roost here. I'm gonna have to learn you that. Gonna be hard for you to do that when I beat you unconscious. Think you might get lucky then huh? I don't need luck to pound you flat. You're gonna pound me with your fat. Oh no I am scared. Put up or shut up your little shrimp. Come and get some you hag. Now who's hoping to get lucky? That's it. I'm gonna take you out for that one. Oh my. These miners are so can't take her us. I guess we'll start by talking with blasphemous bet here. Well what do you want dipstick? Uh I was just wondering what's going on here we can say. There's a bunch of crap in this bar and me and my morning star miners are gonna shovel it out into the street. The biggest turd even has a name. Caminetto. Why? What started it we can say? And she says just look at their sorry ass limp fisted selves. Who wouldn't want to stop them flat? That's not good enough we can say I can't let you fight. What the hell are you gonna do about it yet daggone crap heel? We have a number of options. We can say I'm just gonna ask you real nice like then I'm gonna load up my weapons and wait for some target practice. And if we pass a speech check she says well maybe I could use some rest. I've been working my daggone ass off lately then she addresses the other miners. Break it up gang I'll be back at work tomorrow she says. Don't worry we can say I'm bringing Caminetto along to keep your company. Right Caminetto? I see how this is going your little piece of crap she says. Okay you can take me in and Caminetto too then she addresses Caminetto. Right my little doll face? That's more like it we can say. And with that we appear back at the jail. We see Caminetto and blasphemous bet in their cells. If we talk to Bet she says I gotta share this crappy jail with that jerk but we don't find him in her cell. Instead we find him in the one next over. We was just having a bit of fun he says let us out. Then heading to talk to the sheriff I'm not sure that putting every damn minor in town into my jail was the best way to solve that problem. I guess it worked though here's your money. So that's one way to solve the problem. Or if we have the badge in our inventory we find an option to say the sheriff asked me to help out while he's laid up with the bum leg. I've got to keep my word to him. And she says yeah that Mirians kind of cute. Okay for him I'll give those caca weave pansies a rain check for an ass kicking. Thanks we can say I was hoping you'd see things that way. Goodbye. With blasphemous bet convinced we now have to calm down Caminetto. What the hell do you want he says? And we can go through the same dialogue path. Me and my boys are going to teach these morning star cream puffs a lesson he says starting with blasphemous bet over there. Why we can ask what started it? We just got tired of their honorees self stinking up our bar. Then when we tell him that we can't let him do that he says oh yeah how are you going to stop us? And we can then show him our badge. Well okay for the sheriff's sake I suppose we can hold off a bit he says and then we can head back down to the sheriff to tell him the good news. But strangely he responds poorly. You sure didn't do much of a job in breaking up that bar fight? Can't pay you for something you didn't rightly do. But I've still got a bum leg. You're ready for another job? Either way we can advance to the next job. But neither option gets a positive outcome from the sheriff. At any rate when ready we can ask him about the details for the next job. In which case he says somebody cut up a whore over at lose Malamute Saloon. Just across the street here in downtown go find out who did it and bring them in. I'll pay you $500 for doing it. That kind of thing is bad for business. Just bad all the way around. I'll catch whoever did it we can say no problem. Goodbye sheriff. Head north back to the Malamute Saloon. We can start to ask around to find out more about this whore that was cut. The standing at the bar we find a scantily clad woman. Hey there sailor come here often. You come here to visit with Fanny Mae? Uh yeah I'm here to visit you we can say. And she says well aren't you sweet. Act and so bashful and all. It's gonna cost you 60 bucks for a visit with me sugar. 60 bucks huh? Sounds like a good price to me. Here's my money we can say. On the screen fades to black. And when we are done she says you've been so nice to me. I felt that you really meant something when you did that. I wish it was like that all the time. And we can say well when you're with me it is. And she says I don't want to do this anymore. Me and my fellow are gonna get away from here and live life straight just as soon as I pay off Lou. Pay off Lou we can ask. And she says yeah well I owe Lou some money and I can't leave until I pay her off. But as soon as I do I'm gonna take my bow and get myself as far away from this life as I can. If I could only raise a little extra dough. Can't your boyfriend help you out of debt we can ask and she says he really wants to. But he is just barely getting by as a minor. We keep hoping he'll make a big strike. But that hasn't happened yet and last week a bean fell on him and broke his leg so we can't work. Now I have to give him what little money I can spare till he gets better. Sounds as though you two have had some bad luck we can say. How much did you say you need? And she says all I need now is $200 and I'm in the clear. My man and I are out of here clean and free. No more strange grubby people pawing at me all day and night. I didn't mean no offense. None taken we can say. I don't really paw, do I? Anyhow I could pay your way out of here. There's $200. And she says oh thank you thank you. I didn't think there was anyone this kind outside of my dreams. You're the best. Thanks again. Hey wanna free bee on the house? And the chosen one can say why sure Fanny I think I'll take you up on that offer. It fades to black and she says thanks again. I can't wait to tell my guy. We'll be out of here as soon as his leg heals up. That was quite a thank you Fanny we can say. I just better get myself out of here while I can still walk. You're welcome. Then we can talk to the bartender Lou. And she says so you're the sucker giving my Fanny all that money. I wouldn't do that if I were you. You're not helping her like you think you are. What do you mean we can say? And she says what I mean is that Fanny's got a problem and money isn't the answer for it. I hate to break your heart but Fanny's just playing you for a sucker. She just wants money so she can buy jet. You damn much jet. I'm helping her to start a new life we can say. Helping her into an afterlife is what your extra money is doing. She says she's just using that money to buy too much jet. She'll overdose one of these days if you keep giving her money. And we can say I think you're just worried that you're going to lose one of your best earners. You just want to keep your girls down. And she says you can think whatever you like. I just thought I tried to tell you what the straight scoop really is. Or choice whether you want to listen or not. Turning back towards Fanny. Hey there she says you want to spend some time with Fanny and we can say didn't I give you some money so you could stop doing this? And she says well yes but it turns out that I owe Lou more than I thought. And we can say how much more. And she says that's okay baby you've already helped enough. I only need 150 though. Well we can say I guess if that's all you need but this is it and I mean it. And she says oh thank you thank you and we again go through the dialogue tree where we get more sex from her. We can repeat this so verand over and over again. Fanny may and her boyfriend never leave the bar and never move on to start new lives. Despite what Lou says she never does overdose on jet. So instead of wasting all of our money on Fanny may we can instead talk with Lou. Hello there I'm Lou owner of the Malamute Saloon finest house north of San Fran. Well hello there Lou what's going on in this town we can ask. She says well mostly we mind Goldor here and traded to other areas. You mind Goldor here? Yep just in the north part of town alone there are two working gold mines she says. We trade Goldor to Vault City and return from medical supplies. We trade ore to the new California Republic and return for fresh brawmen and other vixels. And we trade Gold to new Reno for Kim's and booze. We can ask her what a Malamute is and she says just a big dog. But doing a bit of digging I discovered that the Malamute Saloon played a central role in the poem called The Shooting of Dan McGrew by the Scottish Canadian poet Robert William Service. And this discovery unlocked a lot of this town for me. In this poem we meet Dangerous Dan McGrew and his girlfriend Lou who runs a bar called the Malamute Saloon. We haven't met Dangerous Dan McGrew yet but he is in red ink we'll meet him in a minute. The story goes that Dangerous Dan McGrew was playing solitaire by himself in the back of the bar. While the love of his life Lou was watching him while manning the bar but then a minor stumbles into the bar. As soon as he entered Lou's eyes went wide and began to stare at him then the haggard minor sits down at a piano and starts playing a tune. It had a huge impression on everybody in the bar and then inexplicably the man stands up and says one of you in this bar is a hound of hell and that one is Dan McGrew. Then the lights of the bar go out, two guns blaze and a woman screams. When the lights come back on two men lie dead. Dangerous Dan McGrew pumped full of lead and then the strange minor but curiously Lou clutches the head of the dead minor to her breast instead of the head of the man she's supposed to love. Dangerous Dan McGrew. So we get the idea that the story is about a lover's tiff, Dangerous Dan McGrew and the anonymous minor fighting over the affections of Lou the bartender. But there are even more references to the poetry of Robert Service in Reading which we'll get to in a bit. And then we can say you mentioned San Fran, where exactly is San Fran in relation to here? And she says San Francisco is quite a way south of here, you're a long ways from there, south and just a tick to the west. It's right next to the ocean don't you know? Don't know why any sane person would want to go there for? Why we can ask is it dangerous? She says well I hear all kinds of things about the whole city being full of nothing but crazy followers of some kind of kooky religion. Crazed followers we can ask and she says yep that's right I heard that they're building some huge device that'll let them get in touch with their gods or something like that. Don't know much for certain it's a long ways off. Seems like monuments to gods always seem to have some sort of trouble at the heart of them we can say. We can barter with her and on her inventory she has Morningstar Mindscript and Kakoweef Mindscript as well as about 240 bucks. The Mindscript just works like any other NCR dollar even outside of Reading. Before we leave we can say, Lou I'm helping out the sheriff. He told me you had one of your girls get all cut up and she says that's right. She's in a bad way used to be such a perty thing too. I sure hope you take care of this quick it's bad for business to let those miners think they can get away with something like this. Can I see the girl we can ask? And she says I sent her away. She wasn't going to be no good in this business anymore not that anyone would want to be with her after that bastard finished with her. I gave her some money and let her go. Do you know who did it we can ask? And she says I don't know exactly who did it but she had a Morningstar Mindscript on her hand when we found her and it was a miner who was with her last. A Morningstar Mindscript what's that we can ask and she says in the North part of town Dan McGrew runs the Morningstar Mind. Usually the miners get paid on account or with chits from each mine you know script. Well my girl was found with one of those pieces of script on her hand. Here it is look for yourself and she hands us the script. Despite this we don't actually get any script from her. What exactly happened we can ask? And she says well there was some screaming and carrying on and so I went to the room. When I got there the bastard what did it was already gone and my girl wasn't a bad way. So I called the doc and then the sheriff. You know the rest. I'll sort this out for you we can say you can count on me. And she says well I'm sure glad someone's working on it. This type of thing is just bad all the way around. I sure hope you make the bastard pay for what he did to my girl. Make sure he can't never do that to no one ever again. Before heading out we can explore the Malamud Saloon. We find the manager's office in the northwestern corner. There's some booze in a bookshelf and some money in the desk heading out to the hallway. We find a ladder leading to a basement. The basement is filled with rats. After clearing them all we can explore. We have to go through two doors to reach the tavern still. Here we find a cooler on the ground with some fruit inside and a refrigerator with some small dusty box of some sort. From here we find a door that leads to the underground tunnels we've seen already. But before we go exploring these let's head back topside to see if we can find a quest that sends us there. The first bedroom is empty. The second one has a scout handbook on the bookshelf. The third one has a knife in the bookshelf and the fourth one has two rocks in the bookshelf. Moving out and going behind the building we find a small bathroom. No cats paw magazine. So when ready we can head north to the exit zone. The northern side of town is where the two competing mines are. When we arrive we see a bunch of men milling about how you do when they say looks like that's a caravan office. We'll check it out in a minute. Heading south we see a bunch of cages. Looks like they've got mole rats in there. Moving to the shack we find our gruff looking woman with a big smile. Nothing happening here right now she says. Maybe we need to come back at the right time and then we can loot her foot locker. We find some beer and some fruit. Show up at the corral right around noon every day she says. Oh okay. Head not we can move north to the corral. We see that an audience has assembled in the seats nearby and then we find a man standing by a pile of dead mole rats. Mole rat maimbo reads a huge banner just north of the sign. If we wait until noon the woman from the shack walks towards the corral. Hello there I'm Jackpot Jane and I run the beast fights here in town. Here to place a bet on the outcome of one of our primal struggles beast against beast in its rawest form. Uh what happens here we can ask and she says quite simple really. Two of the fearsome beasts that you can take a close look at. No tricks here I assure you will be heard into the ring. Seconds later you will be treated to a display of the raw power of Mother Nature. What does Mother Nature have to do with this we can ask? Well as I was saying she says the two creatures will hurl themselves against one another in an explosion of ferocity. The likes of which haven't been seen since the great machines roam the earth. Is that what twinks your twinkie so you enter out? Geez everyone's a critic these days. Um I'm in I guess we can say and she says the sport part is when you bet on the outcome of the fight. Here's how it works. You come up to me and say you want a place of bet. I tell you which two critters are fighting next and you tell me which critter you're putting your money on. If your critter wins you double your money. Triple in the event of a first round take down. If your critter loses then your money belongs to me. There are usually several fights each day. Until the stock of critters runs low you can bet on all of them but just one bet per fight. Oh yeah just to keep things nice and easy all bets are a hundred bucks. Okay I get it. Let me try it we can say and she says I've never put on a lineup this close before. Shredder fighting Percy this round. Should be a good fight. Which ways your money going? Well between the two shredder sounds more intimidating. I mean who would bet money on a mole rat named Percy? Wait a minute maybe that's what they wanted me to think. Alright I'm putting all my money on Percy and with that the mole rats enter the ring. They sniff each other a bit and then go in the claws bared. After a short while. Oh an explosion of blood. But was that shredder or Percy? And the winner is Percy by a blood soaked claw. Let me pay everyone off and we'll start the next round. I decided to try it again this time I got muttly and Zoroaster the Great. Zoroaster the Great sounds were intimidating so using the same logic I went ahead and bet on muttly and it paid off after a quick bout. Ooh what a gore fest she says I can't remember every single fight like that. The winner is muttly let me pay everyone off and we'll start the next round. Alright 200 bucks up on the deal I think we'll call on the day. Heading north we now understand that big pile of ten mole rats nearby. Next to the mole rat mumbo sign we find a bathroom. Here's the guy in here not very talkative. Moving east we pass the Morningstar mine heading inside we see that it's a bit of a barracks I guess this is where the miners rest up and standing inside we find two men talking to the guy to the left. I hear that someone might want to talk to old Higgswell. Someone's volunteer to bring Oba Daya to justice is that you? Okay so I guess his name is Oba Daya Higgswell? Does that mean he's the guy I'm looking for? Did he cut the hooker? I might be here to bring Oba Daya to justice we can say what do you know about the affair? And he says I cut the witch she made a mistake she did. A mistake we can ask and he says she made fun of me mum. Nobody makes fun of old Higgswell's mum she's the only good thing in this whole rotting world. She made fun of your mother we can say? Well that's not right at all but you overreacted. Well that I did he says but the last and I hear at Morningstar don't think that what she did was right not right at all but I promise to not do it again. We can attack him and make an example out of him. We can let him go letting him off scot free but to complete the quest and move on to the next we can say I'm sure that the jury will take that into consideration I'm still taking you in. It can meet a jail he says I'll come peaceably no sense in making more trouble the witch still got what she deserved you can't kill me I'm invincible but you can sure piss off the other miners got eyes in the back of your head do ya? Is he serious or is he just trying to bluff his way out of this? At this point we can back out feeling intimidated or we can say I can take care of myself right now I'm the sheriff in these ear parts and I'm taking you in. So that we appear back a jail we don't find him in any of the cells not sure where he's at but we can turn the quest into the sheriff thank god you put that murdering bastard Hakes will away he says I thought he just cut her he didn't murder her anyway we'll show him a bit of justice and then we'll hang him well done he says here's your money ready for one more job okay wow yeah they're gonna execute the guy I mean I get it disfiguring a woman is not cool but the death penalty frontier justice I suppose this whole scene is a complicated reference to a character in a series of historical novels by Bernard Cornwell regarding his character Sharp which take place during the Napoleonic War in these dramas Sharp has an archanimist this named Obediah Hakeswell who has an odd fixation over his mother and talks to a painting of another woman that he pretends is his mother that he keeps in his hat never thought you'd see it did you mother you hate me don't well I hate you what do I do I hate him we should not at one point in the past he was hanged but he didn't die during the hanging but he keeps the scar from the hanging around his neck and has developed a myth around himself that he can't die oh the Tika and die see his neck it's right hanging once and it didn't kill him they say you can't be killed Sergeant Hakeswell what is known come with me my lads for I cannot die I'm going to live forever with it's right to hang me once but did not do it at one point in the story he does try to rape a woman by knife point open your legs never so wide and lies still as a dead man that's it your mother was a box read and sour so herself to a dode but that rape is spoiled eventually he is put to the firing squad buddy doesn't die it takes a pistol to the chest at point blank range to finally kill oh but I a Hakeswell but back to the story at Reading tell me about the job we can say and he says there's a bandit name old frog Morton that's taken up lodgings over in the ruins of the great one-a-mingo mine just west of town I need you to exterminate him but be careful he's crafty and he's bound to have some of his gang with him I'll give you a thousand bucks to get rid of the varmant why do you call him frog Morton we can ask and he says well his name is Morton and they call him frog because he croaks people ready to go get him oh out that's terrible the pain the pain we can say and he says hey I didn't make that one up he did with puns that bad I'd say that gives you just one more reason to kill him yep for it on my way sheriff we'll do we can say we can't let a guy like that walk the streets it's not safe just as we're about to head out we see a man standing by the alleyway by the melmouth saloon how do my name's Athabasca dick mostly people just call me dick of course there's somewhat calls me Athabasca mostly they just call me thanks for the repetition there buddy what's at the basket mean we can ask and he says Athabasca at the basket that's not so dang hard to say is it crim it it's just my nickname do you really want to know how I got my nickname yes I really do but we don't have an option man I want to know how we got the nickname at the maska but our only options are to move on in the conversation so well at the basket dick is actually another reference to the poetry of Robert service the poem is about a sailor named Athabasca dick who really loves to drink he and the lad spend their time at the pub getting drunk before going out on river boats to do manual labor all he thinks about while he's on the river is his next drink one day a friend of his on the boat named jackpot Jim took him aside and showed him that he had a flask of rye but just as Jim was about to have a drink he slipped and fell overboard the rest of the sailors on the river boat raced forward but they gave up jackpot Jim for lost but Athabasca dick says I'm going after him the other lads try to grab him they say he's crazy better we lose one than two but at the basket dick is so strong that he shakes them all off and dives into the river he swims after jackpot Jim who's headed towards a waterfall but he doesn't swim fast enough both at the basket dick and jackpot Jim go tumble in over the falls the rest of the sailors disembark from the river boat and race down to the bottom of the falls to try and recover the bodies the bodies wash ashore they reach for Athabasca and to their surprise he spits out water and sits up he turns to check on jackpot Jim but he saw the gym was dead but then he reaches into his coat and retrieves the flask of whiskey then with a deep murmur he says thank god the whiskey is saved so that's the poem Athabasca dick jumped into the river to save some whiskey so it looks like the entire town of redding and Fallout 2 is an homage to the poetry of Robert W. Service well dick what do you do here and he says I work a spell now and then here at the morning star they can always use experience we can then ask him what's going on around town and he says same old thing mostly all of us miners working just to get our next flight on jet jet what's jet we can ask and he says jet is just a little something from new Reno I just take enough to smooth out the rough edges have you heard any interesting rumors we can ask and he says well not much lately except about them gall dang wanamingos want to mongols what the heck is that we can say and he says you're telling me that you ain't never heard of the wanamingos and we can say no I've never heard of anything like that please tell me about them and he says well some say that they were here before the a bombs h bombs and all what else hit others say they were genetic alley in junior as weapons and then there's some what say that they're from a whole different planet what are they we can ask who cares where they came from just tell me what they are and he says well I don't rattle in no what they are exactly but I can tell you this they shut down the wanamingo mine just west of town a few years back the wanamingo mine we can ask and he says yep and the great wanamingo was the richest strike in these here parts but now nobody'll go near it heck you can even buy it from a squirty if you wanted to but nobody will I could buy it is it worth anything we can ask and he says well not right now it ain't haven't you heard anything I've said it's filled with them damn wanamingos but if in someone was to clean the plain sound well that'd be a bromin of a different color heck you wouldn't even have to kill all of them what do you mean the chosen one can ask and he says well there's some stuff in there that the owners of the mornin star and the cacuif mines here in town would sure pay a pretty penny for what kind of stuff we can ask and he says well you see mines used to be dug out by big machines heck those mines are built to last both mines got big diggers but and here's the money question the dang little control chips weren't made so tough neither mines got a chip that works he he there are a lot of people in the wasteland that laugh like that I'm not sure I understand what you're getting at here the chosen one can dimly say and he says well what I'm saying is that either mine owner would pay for one of these digger control chips heck if they had a work in machine and the other mine doesn't they'd shut the other mine down or buy them out in no time too bad nobody knows where to get one of those chips then our dim chosen one can again say and the mad says squeegee out your dang ears I told you where to look for the damn chip ain't you been listening to a word I said the when a mingo mine had machines and they were working till the time the mine got shut down probably still chips down there just waiting for someone to come along and take them okay well the plot has sufficiently been told to us by now but before we go off trapsin through the one a mingo mine let's head back north to finish exploring the northern side of town near to the caravan office we find a number of empty tents but in one we find a fellow in a vault suit this guy is named Ben Wade another reference to western movies Ben Wade was a character in the 1957 film 310 to Yuma edits 2007 remake and this Ben Wade runs caravans between redding and vault city he explains what we've already learned that vault city trades medicine for gold from redding and we can work with him if we ever want to go on a caravan then we can head to the caravan office here we find a fellow in a green shirt hello there I'm James Hoffey but usually people call me Jimmy I organized the caravans around here from this fellow we learned that they have caravans going to vault city new Reno and the NCR but the caravan officers are not in town all at the same time right now the vault city guy Ben Wade is in town that's why we found him at the tent below but at other times we'll find the representatives from the NCR and new Reno instead the vault city guy leaves on the first of each month the new Reno guy leaves on the 21st of each month and the NCR guy leaves on the 11th of each month moving out we can pass by a well to return to the morning star mine office here we find six lockers all right let's get to luten and the left one we find a big wrench and a shovel and the second one we find some dynamite and the third one we find a sledgehammer in the fourth one we find a crowbar and a sledgehammer in the fifth one another sledgehammer and in the sixth one a coil of rope in some jet we see a room adjacent to this but we find the door just outside hello there my name is dangerous Dan McGrew I run the morning stars mine here what can I do for you there we go we finally meet dangerous Dan McGrew what do you mine here we can ask and he says we mine gold everybody wants it too send it all the way to vault city new Reno and even down to the NCR yeah might say that redding has something for everybody that's what keeps us independent I'd think that someone would try to control redding we can say and he says what makes you think they haven't everybody would like to have redding under their belt my guess is that someone will get us pretty soon about the only thing we can do is choose our master if we want to survive what do you mean we can ask and he says I mean that we're gonna be put under someone's thumb only a fool thinks otherwise our choice is to pick the lightest thumb which you've done of course we can say and he says you bet I have if we don't ally ourselves with one of the families of new Reno you can just kiss redding goodbye at least any type of redding that I'd want to live in if the NCR takes over redding is going to be put under the thumb hard they aren't real big on personal freedom they're going to turn redding into another splotch on the new California Republic map the redding I know will be gone forever and vault city those bigots would turn redding into a slave labor camp they don't see anyone who's not one of their precious citizens as being worth a warm bucket of spit spending your life bowing and scraping to those bigots isn't my idea of any kind of life how's new Reno any different we can ask and he says new Reno is strong enough to protect redding from the other two since new Reno's divot up amongst different gang families it's divided enough to give us our best chance for autonomy in new Reno they don't care how we run things as long as they get their gold well that doesn't sound so great either we can say and he says this ain't a perfect world chum sometimes you've got to make the best of a bad situation just turns out that bad people may be best for redding not everyone sees it that way though so what do you think is going to happen we can say and he says don't know for sure but things are heating up whatever city has the strongest backers here in redding is going to get the whole pie I'm just doing my damnedest to make sure it's new Reno that wins the way I see it that's redding's only chance how can you help new Reno to take over we can ask and he says best thing to do is just to make my mind prosper and make sure my miners know who's paying the bills the fact that they get all their happy sauce from new Reno makes the place a lot more popular too happy sauce we can ask and he says booze chems all sorts of chemical recreations you name it new Reno supplies it it's just about the only thing that some of my miners work for be held to pay if something ever happened to that how's your chest supply lately we can ask and he says right now we don't get hardly enough jet and town to keep everyone happy I sure hope those next few caravans get through all right we'll be coming back here to redding to tinker with the jet situation here once we accept a quest at new Reno have you ever heard of something called a guard and a vieden creation kid we can ask and he says a guard and a vieden creation kit never heard of something like that I tend to find my Eden in lose sweet arms we met Lou at the Malamute Saloon but we can still tease him isn't Lou a guy's name and he says it is when it isn't short for Louisa like my lose is she runs the Malamute Saloon here in town hey just what are you getting at anyway instead of provoking him further and calling him sweet back out now but then the chosen one can say why do they call you dangerous Dan McGrew and he says because I'm nothing but the biggest toughest mycrawlin gully wampon snake eating buck in these here parts dangerous Dan McGrew that's me all right we can leave them be let him think what he wants about himself or we can say you don't look so damn tough to me them's fighting words and these here parts he says you're ready to back that up if we further provoke him here he'll either turn hostile or refuse to talk to us anymore so instead of provoking him we'll go through the few final questions we have here what's going on here in town lately we can say and he says well one things for sure I could sure use a new control chip for my excavator machine a new excavator chip watch that I've got a big pre-war excavator already to run he says but it's got a problem no brands and here the chosen one finds no other option than to be snarky and say I'd like to say that it's got plenty of company in this town but instead I'll say what do you mean and he says it's control chip burnt out and it's not like I can order a new one but I know where one is be willing to pay a thousand bucks for it too if you need it so bad how come you haven't gone to get it yourself we can ask and he says plenty of reasons most of them hungry and nasty want a me go mind just chuck full of hungry wanna me go's what the hell is a wanna me go we can ask and he says it's just the onriest nastiest most vicious critter I think I've ever seen it's got teeth four inches long all I mean 14 inches long but I think you can handle it we can then ask him about many of the other things that we've already addressed here in town including about how we put Obadaya Hakeswill in jail for cutting the hooker despite what Obadaya said the Morningstar miners do not get angry at us in fact this guy says you did the right thing by putting that bastard Hakeswill in jail he bullied and intimidated my miners but they still didn't want to see him get killed out of hand it'll be better for him to be hung all legal on proper so dangerous Dan wants an excavator chip from the one a me go mine but we've heard that his competition wants the same chip let's see if we can go track down Marge La Barge in dangerous dance desk we find some jet and there's nothing in his bedroom heading out we see a building just north of the Morningstar mine this appears to be the old mine entrance but it doesn't look like it's functional there's a big pile of rocks here we see a nukikolo machine off in the distance but we can't get there the pile of rocks is blocking our path and we see an ore elevator in the northwestern corner but it has a sign that says out of order there are two garage doors on the eastern side of the building however and we can open them from here we can reach the nukikolo machine but sadly it's out of order we can't get a nukikola and even though we can reach it we still can't take the out of order mining elevator heading out and moving south we find a bar the last gasp saloon and are these coffins with bodies in them yeah these are coffins with bodies in them maybe they're just stuffed perhaps this is just the bar's gag it's a graveyard themed bar but strangely enough the headstones outside all appear to be real the one to the right of the front door reads the name a date on this headstone has been worn off by the weather to the left of the door reds are netto we can still hear his voice in the halls to the right of the coffin beneath the front sign rob jiempa lived his life like he liked his women fast cheap and easy the one next to this has been worn off by the weather but to the right of this Chris Snyder too competitive and to the right of this jug head king of queen archie's world okay this is a reference to the 1997 film chasing Amy where one of the characters argued that archie and jug head from the archie comics were lovers archie and jug head were lovers shut the fuck up it's true archie was the bitch and jug head was the bush that's why jug head where's that crown looking hot all the time he'd a king queen how much he's worth heading inside the tavern with Seattle thin man looking at us appraisingly hello there friend names Josh Lawrence I own this place what is this place exactly we can ask and he says this is the last gasp saloon and funeral parlor a full service establishment bottle to grave his armado that seems like a bizarre combination Josh we can say and he says that it is but I couldn't make ends meet just burying people you might say business was dead oh it was a grave matter so I undertook the job of fixing up my place to sell drinks too oh uh doesn't it throw people off their feet to see all the stiffs in here well it would if they was all real he says but they ain't not all of them anyway sides the miners kind of like it make some feel lucky to be alive well I think it's creepy we can say you're a very disturbed individual you call me creepy he says why I hear that tribal's eat their damn dead and we can really mess with this guy hey back off we can say we cook them first we're not savages you know well I guess as long as you cook he starts but then he says hold on a gold yarn minute that's still cannibalism you're one sick little unit even for a tribal relax Josh I was just kidding heck we just cook parts of them we can say and he says parts huh which parts exactly who cares we can say with a shrug parts as parts and he says yeah well I guess that makes a kind of sense hey what's been going on in town lately we can say and he says well not a whole lot that I pay attention to mostly my business is kind of quiet still is the grave you might say although lately that doesn't mean so much huh what do you mean we can ask and he says I've been spending time rebearing people in the graveyard next door someone or something keeps digging them up don't know why I mean it ain't like they have anything valuable on them how do you know that they don't have anything valuable on them we can ask and he says well I don't know for certain like um well I just guess in yeah that's it hey have a free beer I don't know what you're implying we can say but I don't like it well he says I ain't never seen nothing but every week or so one or another of the graves is all pod and half dug up like don't rightly know what would do that that's strange the chosen one can say disturbance what it is says our bartender now miners are telling me that they'd rather rest out their final days here inside rather than get planted only to be pulled back up like an over ripe turnip hell I wouldn't mind saving the cute ones inside but not everyone I don't know what all to do about it okay did he just say that he wouldn't mind having cute corpses in his bar I think that's what he just said well what a pleasant image that is says the chosen one I'm sure that I'll wake up in a cold sweat thinking about that one with that we can raid his fridge we find a little bit of food not much else heading out of the tavern we can go explore this graveyard we kept hearing about and sure enough we see that one of the graves has been exhumed and if we try to access it we again arrive in the tunnels below the town how many entrance says lead to this place if we have a shovel in our inventory we can dig up each of these graves but all of them are empty looks like our good bartender was right there but well we're at it we can read the headstones tramol ray isic here lies one of the hardest working men in the business animator extraordinaire sp I think rest in peace t-ray this is an inside reference to an artist that worked at interplay tramol ray isic notably he designed the vault boy so we all have him to thank for our favorite fall on mascot we can read the others john daily I was somebody who is no business of yours Jason Taylor Evan chant land 74 to question mark he wasn't paranoid they really were after him this is another inside reference to a developer at interplay why not just kill yourself and save someone else the hassle looks like this fellow follow that advice Christopher night wing johns administrator of the mushroom brews yeah I have no idea Sarah smart over there author professor d m a cisha also no idea if we dig up all of these graves we get the grave digger title they're dead they don't care has become your motto digging up the remains of others is more than a hobby for you as unsavory as this title may be we don't suffer a negative effect for having it unlike the sliver or child killer titles this one is rather innocuous move in south of the graveyard we can examine that well we passed earlier i'm beginning to have my suspicions about this thing sure enough if we climb inside we again arrive at the tunnels beneath the town and again we'll wait to explore this until later but there's a glitch here we arrive at the latter beneath the grave so that when we climb back out we climb out of the graveyard and next we can explore the cacowief mine heading into the northern building we find a woman who seems to already be aware of our quest have any luck getting that excavator chip she asks uh if I had it you'd be among the first to know we can say yeah gee thanks i'm getting all warm and cuddly feeling inside what do you want we can then ask her some questions and she says hello there i'm marge marge la barge and I run this mine what do you mine here we can ask and she says gold of course we mine it right here at the cacowief and then ship it to vault city new reno and the new california republic all right it's a similar story to what we heard at the morning star but we'll let her have her say so you send it all over the place we ask and she says sure do everyone likes gold you should talk to the caravan master james huffy if you're real curious about it we've already talked with him so we can ask her why did you call your mine cacowief and she says why not actually i don't know where the name came from i think it's always been called that even before i got here it's got kind of a romantic sound to it don't you think cacowief yeah i still like the way that sounds well maybe to me it just sounds like a bodily function the name of this mine is a reference to the legend of an underground river of gold bordered by blacks and beaches beneath cacowief mountain many people have searched for the treasure beneath cacowief mountain but none have found it there is even a mine on cacowief mountain but it's abandoned it has yet to produce any gold today the entrance to the mine has been filled in with rubble but some say that the river of gold is real and it's still there lurking beneath cacowief mountain looks like in the fallout universe the cacowief mine really did produce gold hey marge have you ever heard of something called the garden of Eden creation kit a garden of Eden creation kit huh sounds pretty impressive and i had something like that yes sure wouldn't find me rubbing around on the dirt to make ends meet now would you are you a reading native we can ask heck no she says i was born way up north right on the edge of a lake lake La Barge it was i've never heard of that we can say this is yet another reference to a poem by Robert service but this poem is called the cremation of sam magee one of the verses goes the northern lights have seen queer sites but the crearest they ever did see was that night on the march of lake la barge i cremated sam magee the story goes that the narrator and sam magee were hiking in the yukon in search for gold they had a sled and they were pulled by huskies but it was so cold that sam magee could feel it in his bones one night he turns to the narrator and says that he doesn't mind the thought of freezing to death but what he can't stand is the thought of his corpse being left out in the snow to remain a frozen monument for eternity and so he has the narrator promise that if he dies to cremate him to give him one last bit of warmth the narrator agrees and sure enough that night sam magee dies but the narrator doesn't have any fuel left and so for weeks he totes around the frozen corpse of sam magee which has become such a burden to him until at last he arrives at the marge of lake la barge where upon he finds the wreck of a wooden boat called the alice me he sees is upon the opportunity to tear up the boards from the ship and use it as a makeshift crematorium he puts sam magee in the middle of the boat sets it on fire closes the door and then walks away so it's not to hear his body sizzle but the fire roared and roared and wouldn't go out and after a while he got curious so he went back down to the alice me and opened the door only to find sam magee sitting by the fire inside the boat alive and well please close that door says sam magee it's fine in here but I greatly fear you'll let in the cold and storm and that's the story of cremating sam magee i think robber took a little creative license with his poem because the lake he's referring to is actually called lake liberge e rge and it's in canada so marge here must have traveled quite a ways to get all the way from lake liberge in canada here to california no about any jobs or anything else going on here we can ask well there's always rumors she says but i do have something that needs to in tell me about the rumors we can say well there's always the unusual rumors about redding being taken over or about one of mingos coming out of the graveyard at night heck someone even said that they saw some kind of flying machine go overhead a few months ago what did you hear about the takeover we can say well people always talk about vault city taken over to get our gold she says or one of the families in new reno getting everyone hooked on their dope in order to take over or even the ncr wanting to annex us i tell you the ncr's our best bet but they're all just out for our gold redding still independent so far what about the one of mingo we can ask and she says a one of mingos just the single orgriest critter there is tall as two men stronger than a bull braman and with flapping suckers instead of arms can't be hurt with guns neither supposedly engines called him up for revenge on the white man for what the war did i don't put much stock in that though you say you saw a flying machine oh yeah she says well a couple of my minors were flying a bit themselves jettying around if you catch my drift a while back they swore up and down that they saw some shipfly past going southwest so the one of mingos were coming out of the graves perhaps that's why the graves kept getting exhumed the one of mingos were popping out of them but does that mean that the tunnels beneath the town somehow connect to the one of mingo mine and could her minors have really seen a flying machine was it alien in origin or could it somehow be related to the crashed machine we saw at Klamath exploring the cack we've mined HQ we find a scouts manual in the bookshelf here and in a nearby desk a bottle of booze some money and some brass knuckles in the back room we can open a locker where we find some dynamite and yet another sludge hammer moving out we can explore the southern of the two coca-weef mine shacks this is the barracks we see the minors standing around in here and there's nothing in the bathroom so heading out we can move to the coca-weef mine itself opening a garage door we can head inside and like the morning star mine this mine shaft elevator is also out of order mother's no cola machine here with the northern side of town explored we can now continue on our mission for the sheriff remember he wants us to kill the gangster frog morten heading to the western exit grid we arrive at the northern exit grid of frog morten's layer and this place is infested with rats and pig rats they're not difficult but it just takes so much time there's like two dozen of these dog on rats and pig rats when they're finally dead we can explore this ruin to the east we see a sign outside of it great one-a-mingo mine in a desk we find a coil of rope and in a ruined dresser we find some flares on the eastern side of the building we find the exit grid that leads back downtown here we find painless dock johnson his proximity to the one-a-mingo mine is gonna become very useful in just a bit moving south to explore this ruin we see it not only infested but swarming with some of frog mortens men flee before me puny one they say and they attack but it's only three of them after killing them and looting their bodies we can explore these two ruins down here they're also swarming with rats and pig rats so we've got to get rid of all of them one clear we can move to the southern building in one of the bookshelves we find another scout manual and aside from a lot of interesting graffiti and posters on the walls there's nothing much else here moving towards the larger of these two ruins we find a skeleton beneath a pile of rubble and on his body we find some dynamite inside the ruin we find a dresser with a stem pack inside and then we find a door that leads to an alleyway on the other side of this fence but as soon as we open the door the goons waiting in the alleyway open fire and then the door to the main shack opens and out pours a dozen of frog mortens goons if we allow them to trap us in this confined space they can easily overwhelm either ourselves or one of our companions killing us quickly but there are two hidden garage doors on the northeastern side of this building i managed to finally succeed by opening one of these doors and then standing far back allowing each of the goons to file out one by one while my companions fired at them from range they still did a bit of ganging up on me but i was able to keep myself alive with stem packs while they ignored my companions and my companions picked them all off when frog and his goons are finally dead we can loot the bodies and we walk away with a whole bunch of shotguns great for selling and on the body of frog morten we find a completely new weapon and hnk g11 this gun revolutionized assault weapon design the weapon fires a caseless cartridge consisting of a block of propellant with a bullet buried inside the resultant weight and space savings allows this weapon to have a very high magazine capacity minimum strength five and it has a magazine capacity of 50 shots of 5.7 millimeter caseless ammunition but it weighs 9 pounds this is quite an exotic weapon based on a real world weapon called the heckler and coke g11 and in the real world only a thousand of these were ever produced so if the same is true for the Fallout universe it's quite a rare weapon and Fallout 2 it's a decent mid-game weapon it can fire single shots but it's primarily used for its burst mode i found it to be quite weak compared to pistols when a single shot is fired but it deals decent damage with burst mode two bursts from this thing can even take down a death claw of our companions only sulic and Lenny can use it but since it's a burst weapon i don't recommend that the real drawback of this weapon is the 4.7 millimeter caseless ammunition is exceedingly rare one of the rarest ammunition in the entire game with frog morten dead we can head back to the sheriff you did it yet killed frog great job great job here's a thousand dollars in reward money of course his brothers aren't going to be too happy with you when they hear about it but heck that's just part of the job brothers we can say you didn't tell me that frog had brothers didn't i says the sheriff must have plundoned on slip my mind yep that's what it did well he's got three older brothers even meaner than he was from what i hear let's see there's toad, noot and snake morten if i remember a right heck you know how tall tales can get by the way keep that badge i gave you you word it sheriff and he smiles and the chosen one can either slink away or say just three more notches on my gun no problem so long sheriff now frog morten's brothers will assail us in random encounters i ran around the map trying to get the random encounters to trigger but i couldn't but never fear if i ever see them while wander on the wastes i'll be sure to share those encounters with you in a future video but now heading back to the one-a-mingo mind we can explore this garage we see that it too has a mine elevator like the morning star the koko-weef garages but this one works we can take the elevator all the way to the bottom of the one-a-mingo mine and as soon as we arrive we get rushed by a one-a-mingo and it's the one-a-mingo queen by taking the elevator we sneak right up behind her but this close proximity makes it difficult to use our ranged weapons despite looking like aliens according to the fallout bible they were genetically engineered like at the basket dick suggested by the pre-war government to be used as weapons and war they like death clause were doused with f-e-v before the war causing them to mutate and evolve into the creatures we see today but not their fallout to nor the fallout bible tells us what these creatures were before they were infected with f-e-v and we don't know where and why they chose this one-mine in redding of all other places on the planet to create their hive according to the fallout bible the one-a-mingo's go extinct five years after the events of fallout too because when they were created before the war they were given a genetic clock which terminates in five years but none of this is explained in the actual game perhaps this can explain why Bethesda who had originally planned to place the one-a-mingo's in fallout three eventually chose to scrap the idea the one-a-mingo queen looks like the other one-a-mingo's only its gray instead of a wine color but it's much more difficult with 160 HP compared to a one-a-mingo's 120 it's more resilient with an armor class of 34 compared to a one-a-mingo's armor class of 33 and it does greater damage dealing 15 melee damage compared to a one-a-mingo's 13 regarding the name one-a-mingo I have no idea why anyone in California would ever use this word to name them because the term one-a-mingo comes from a small city in Minnesota which has been named one-a-mingo since the 19th century even the Minnesota Historical Society doesn't know where the name one-a-mingo came from they believe it's Native American and origin being the name of a Native American hero when from a tale that was told by the natives of the area before colonization how this relates to the one-a-mingo's we find in California well you're as good as mine this is a very tough fight as soon as we arrive every one-a-mingo on this level races towards us and unless we can kill them each quickly they can easily dog pile on top of us so it's important to be able to knock out each one-a-mingo before the next one arrives we just killed four one-a-mingos and I had used a ton of Stimpaks we're surrounded by a bunch of one-a-mingo eggs we don't have to kill them but our companions will start shooting them after the rush we can continue south where we get attacked by even more one-a-mingos we now have to spend hours really navigating this labyrinth to kill every single one-a-mingo to clear on the mine while exploring the eastern side of this bottom level we find a box hiding amongst some barrels picking it up we see that it's the excavator chip but this is actually the wrong one I'll get to that in a minute the one we really want is from this big grinding machine that we see in the middle of the mine but I didn't know it at the time while clearing this mine we find a number of ladders leading up one to the northwest one in the middle of this bottom floor and one to the northeast I ended up taking the northeast ladder up to arrive at another level this one also infested with one-a-mingos on the northern side of the second floor we find a storage room but there's nothing inside west of here we find a ladder leading down to the middle of the bottom floor and to the southwest we find another room inside we find beer on a bookshelf and dynamite from a desk there's an elevator here but this one is broken so we have to find another way out of the mine in the northwestern corner we find the northwestern ladder that leads to the floor below but this is the dead end we find our exit by finding a tunnel on this second level to the right and this brings us to what by now should be a very familiar system of tunnels we arrive in none other than the tunnels directly beneath redding so we never had to take the elevator to begin with the one-a-mingo mine connects directly to these tunnels if we start by going north we immediately get rushed by rats and pig rats after clearing them we can take the first ladder to the right this leads us out by the well and sure enough as we discovered earlier if we take the ladder from the well down we arrive at the ladder beneath the graveyard from here we can clear the rats to the west but there's nothing over here for our trouble so we can move south we find a room to the southwest filled with more one-a-mingos but they're prowling together which makes it very difficult to pick them off one by one so I went through many STEM packs to survive this battle after their dead we see a bit of a layer filled with bones to the southwest but this is the dead end to move onward we can take the tunnel to the southeast following this tunnel south and then west we arrive at the shack beneath the Malmout Saloon which we've already alluded so following the tunnels east and then north we arrive at the shack beneath the casino which again we've already alluded so going south and then southeast we find a ladder leading up to town this leads to the other well on the southern side of town that the widow told us about earlier and then finally we can take the tunnel to the southwest here we find our final few remaining one-a-mingos and with that we clear the one-a-mingos from the one-a-mingo mine heading back topside we can check in with the mayor so he clear out that mine yet he asks I sure did we can say and he says you cleared out the whole mine thanks so much ready to sell me the deed I'll give you 2,500 bucks for it we can keep it but this serves no purpose so instead we'll say you bet I'll be happy to unload the deed and he says I just wanted to thank you again for doing the right thing by Mrs. Rooney I sure didn't want to kick that old lady out of her home he sure didn't want to but he would have with that we take the money and we gain a thousand experience points now we need to decide which of the two mining companies to sell the excavator chip to Dan McGraw of the morning star who supports new Reno or Marge La Barge of the Coco Weaf who supports the NCR now we will have an option later to change things in writing to overwrite the choice we're about to make that hands the keys of reading to vault city but we won't get to that quest until we reach new Reno and we can always not do that quest in which case our choice here decides the fate of reading however I alluded the wrong excavator chip which I think must be a bug even though I headed in my inventory when I talked with Dan McGraw or Marge La Barge I didn't find the options to proceed with the quest so heading back to the mine we can navigate to the western side then take the western ladder down to the bottom level we can find the correct excavator chip on the big grinding machine in the middle of the bottom level here you can see that I now have two but the last one didn't work now that we have the right one we can head all the way back and deliver it to the miner of our choice if we choose to give it to Dan McGraw he again says I'll pay you a thousand bucks for the excavator chip and we can say that sounds good to me here's your chip and that's it we get 2500 experience he doesn't say anything else and we don't really get a resolution with the whole new Reno thing or we can go to the coca-weef and sell it to Marge La Barge I'll give you a thousand bucks for the excavator chip and we can say how did you know that I had the excavator chip on me and she says in a town this size everyone knows more than they want to about everyone else so how about it we can say how much were you going to give me for it and she says a thousand bucks right here right now you wanted or not and we can say okay I'll take it here's the chip you made the right choice she says thanks I'm going to get right on this so we can put the excavator machine to work with that we get 2500 experience even if we have both excavator chips we can only sell one of them the other one remains in our inventory forever and no matter which mine we choose to side with neither of their elevators ever start working and neither of the other two factions the NCR or new Reno ever have a visible presence pure and redding we won't really get a payoff for completing this quest until the very end of the game when we get to observe redding's ending slides but that is the full story of redding and we didn't find the part we needed to fix the air purifier for broken bills so now we have to decide whether or not to head to new Reno to get the piece or just a band in this whole subplot and head straight for Vault 15 to try and find the location of Vault 13 we'll pick up with the chosen one on his adventure in my next episode I publish new videos each and every week here on my channel so if you don't want to miss it be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button if you have and you still feel like you're missing out on youtube notifications consider following me on twitter at oxhorn i update twitter manually with every new piece of content that i publish i have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else my designs come on shirts in a variety of men's women's and children's sizes and in a wide array of colors you can find them on other products as well like smart phone cases pillows poster smuggs stickers prints etc so if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here if you like what i do and you want to support me in a more personal way consider becoming a patron on patreon or a member here on youtube but more than anything i'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today thank you so much for watching and i'll see you soon with more brand new videos what should be