In our last episode, we completed every task for John Bishop, leader of the Bishop Crime family in New Reno. At the end of that task, we either took care of a man named Weston inside NCR, or we took care of Bishop himself. But along the way, we made a startling discovery. We learned that the raiders who have been harassing Vault City are actually hired mercenaries, hired by none other than John Bishop to pressure Vault City into reaching out to the NCR for help, making it easier for the NCR to annex them. And with all of this incriminating information, we found a map to the raiders' hideout. We now know where they are. Before we move on to work with the fourth and final crime family in New Reno, we've got to head back to Vault City to let them know what we've learned. Arriving at Vault City without Lenny or Marcus because they won't let super mutants or ghouls beyond the gate, we can head into the inner city. If we first check in with Wallace just outside the gate, he just tells us to go tell First Citizen Lynette. On our way to the First Citizen, we see Thomas Moore continuing to preach in the center of town. We deliver his briefcase to John Bishop in New Reno and now we know what was inside. Now we know that he is really an NCR spy and here we can confront him. Hello again fellow pilgrim, he says. Did you deliver the information as I asked? He has the same response to all three of the top options. So we can say let's cut the crap Tomcat. I know everything about you and your friends down in NCR. But he says the NCR is trying to bring honor and government to Olive California and Vault City has the power to make it happen. Think of the good we could do with access to Vault City's technology. But it's Vault City's technology we can say others have no right to it but Moore doesn't buy it. All men have the right to the fruits of the old world he says technology is to be shared not hoarded. Now at this point we can threaten him in which case he and all of Vault City turn hostile or we can say yeah yeah cut the holier than thou crap. Hand over some cash or I'm turning you in. Now I tried this conversation with the character with high barter, high speech, high charisma. No matter what I tried I never found an option to succeed. In every case he responds by saying ignorant heathen. You have ears but you do not listen. You have eyes but you are blind. Get from my sight filthy swine. At this point we can again threaten him with violence or say calm down I'm leaving. After upsetting Thomas Moore we can try to make amends. If we talk to him again he says I have nothing to say to one of such foul disposition. Leave. But the chosen one can say I've seen the error of my ways. I've come to repent and hear the word. He says hmm one must be where serpents that echo the words of truth yet shelter falsehoods within their hearts. Amen brother the chosen one can say and Moore says it pleases me to hear that my words have taken seed in your heart. Perhaps our paths will cross again. Perhaps so. The chosen one can say keep the faith brother. With that we can talk with Thomas more again but we simply find all of the same dialogue options we found earlier. Across north of Thomas Moore we find the correction center. We can head inside to talk with Stark. Remember all the way back in my episode on Vault City he sent us on a mission to plot a journey to NCR. Well now that we've been to NCR thanks to John Bishop we've completed that task. Heading to Stark we can say I plotted that route to NCR for you. Alright then says Stark download the information into my pit boy and I'll log it into the patrol computers. With that we gain 750 experience. This intelligence looks good he says well done. Here's payment for your services. $500 plus you might find this useful. What is it we can say? And he says it's a Vault Tech motion sensor. We're gonna strip it for part since it's too old for our pit boys but it looks like it's compatible with your model. How does it work we can ask? And he says keep it in your hand and it id is hostels in your immediate area when you use it or you can call up the pit boy auto map as normal then just click the scanner button and they're lit up like a neon sign. What he doesn't tell us is that by equipping this motion sensor in our active item slot we gain a 20% bonus to the outdoorsman skill when traveling on the world map which can come in really handy when we want to avoid random encounters. Now if we try to tell Stark that we've already found the radar base he says you did? Here is it and we can say down self in a series of caves and the mountains. Here let me point it out. But he just says go tell the first citizen at once. She'll want to know about this immediately. So looks like even their chief of security isn't gonna take action against these raiders. Well perhaps he's just too busy. Adding north we can move into the central council building and have a chat with first citizen Lynette. Yes. What is it? I have some information on those raiders who've been attacking the city. What is it? Now at this point we need to be careful not to say anything to upset her. In fact we should have been careful when talking with her from the very beginning. Any dialogue option we give her that causes her frustration or anger reduces invisible reputation points specifically with her which locks us out of opportunities later in the game. To maximize our opportunities with her we have to lavish her with respect. That means in this case giving her the information for free instead of asking for a price. So we'll say I found their base. They're holed up in a series of caves in the foothills to the south. You have excellent. For the city guards are already stretched then. What about you? Could you in the attacks? I'll pay you. I'll see what I can do. Oh great. Looks like we have to fight Vault City's battles for them. While we're here we can rat out Thomas Moore. Hey first citizen. I ran into this citizen downtown Thomas Moore. Who is he? Moore. He's a troublemaker. That's what he is. You're right. He's got outside interests. What do you mean? Moore's actually working for the new California Republic. A spy for NCR that could explain a great many things. Thank you citizen. I won't deal with this immediately. Then if we leave the council and move south we discover that Moore is missing from the town square. We don't find him imprisoned in the Correction Center or enslaved in the Servant Allocation Center. He's just gone. We get the impression that he was exiled from town. Now since these guys are paying we might as well help them out. Taking a look at the map we found in John Bishop's Safe and we see that the Raiders are south of Vault City. Smack dab between New Reno and Vault City. Now if we arrive at the Raider camp without having found John Bishop's map we find one option. Cliff. We arrive with our car outside a cave entrance into a cliff. However, if we found the Raider map inside John Bishop's Safe and we read it or if we have a really high outdoorsman skill, when we arrive at the Raider camp we find a well. This well location places us amongst some ruins near to a well in the center. This well is a secret entrance to the Raider camp and traveling this way makes the upcoming fight much easier. However for the sake of being thorough we'll go through the front entrance for now. Heading through the cave we arrive in a series of tunnels. We see three paths ahead of us. North, straight ahead and south. Going north for now. You have died. Your quest to find the Garden of Eden and return it to your village has failed. The place is booby trapped. Unless we have a high trap skill we are unlikely to detect all of these traps. At lower levels these traps are powerful enough to kill us and they can be deadly to our companions. However, there is one safe path. If we take the southern tunnel and follow it all the way east we don't run into any traps. That is until the tunnel moves north. A hole opens up in the floor. We were lucky and that we just happened to walk to the left of the hole. But had we walked on top of it we would have fallen into a pit. Just north of here we see a ladder going down. And from here we can explore the pit we would have fallen into had we stumbled into the hole. Scorpions. An entire scorpion's nest. It's really unlucky to fall down here just before having to fight a bunch of raiders as these scorpions can poison us and this poison can be tricky. Now I went ahead and cleared all the scorpions down here for the experience. But that's really the only reason to spend any time down here. All we find for our trouble is a leather jacket and a flare in the southwestern corner and a suit of leather armor lying on the ground against the southern wall. And the entire scorpion is clear and the only way out is to go back up the ladder where we came in. Back top side we know that there are traps down the tunnel to the west. We came from the south that leaves the tunnel to the east our only path forward. The tunnel ends at two chain link fences covered in barbed wire. There's a small door in each fence and we see a horrid of raiders whom we know are actually hired highly armored mercenaries on the other side of the fences. Thankfully, because these are chain link fences, we can shoot through them. That makes this encounter easier but it doesn't make it easy. If we were to walk through the fences, on the other side we would immediately be attacked by a dozen of these guys. With no place to run and nowhere to hide, we would be a pincushion. But in this tunnel, the raiders can only come from one direction. Then they have to travel through these two doors, making them easy prey for plastic explosives, grenades and dynamite. Now my character is not the highest level right now, but he's still high up there and wearing a full suit of combat armor. I came with Vic, John Cassidy and Sulic and each of them were wearing pretty decent armor. Cassidy was wearing middle armor Mark II and both Sulic and Vic were wearing the armored leather jackets. Despite this, these raiders chewed through my companions. If I didn't have them on defensive, they would stupidly race right into the middle of the layer and be killed in one or two rounds. If I told them to be defensive and to stay by me, the raiders would gang up on each of them and then my companions wouldn't use the Stimpaks I gave them. At least not in time to save their lives. So in order to save the lives of all of my companions, I had them wait on the other side of this tunnel and I went in to snipe at these guys by myself. The reason this worked is because the small doors were choke points. Most of the mercenaries wanted to shoot at me from range, but their range was not nearly as long as the range of my sniper rifle. So one of the mercenaries would stand at the maximum range of his weapon right in the middle of the door, making it impossible for the other mercenaries to shoot at me. The other mercenaries would then try to shoot at me through the fence, but because they were out of range, they often missed or did minimal damage. In this way I was able to pick off the guy standing in the door. When he died, the next guy would walk in and then stop right in the middle of the door, blocking the others. I could then pick him off. In this way I was able to pick them off one by one. I still went through over ten Stimpaks, but I managed to pile up their bodies in this choke point. Then I went back and got my companions. With most of the raiders dead, we can then head inside, after looting their corpses we can start by exploring south. Here we find three more raiders, standing by some bunks and lockers. But as it's only three of them, my companions and I were able to pick them off at range. With these three raiders dead, we can explore this little look. We see a bunch of bunk beds to the left. At the foot of one of them is a locked foot locker. Inside we find some jet, Jimmy hats and money. More evidence that these guys came from New Reno. New Reno, where jet is produced, New Reno, where Jimmy hats are as common as dirt. In the southern knuck we find more bonks and four lockers, each of which is locked. In the first one we find 762 ammunition, Jimmy hats and money. In the second one we find booze, a first aid manual, a Stimpak and an antidote. In the third one we find some 10mm ammunition and some money. And in the fourth one we find some dynamite, rope and three flares. Here we also find a foot locker at the base of some of the bunk beds, after picking the lock. Inside we find a Katzpa magazine, another tie to New Reno, more booze and more money. Moving to this little western knuck we find another foot locker by some bunk beds. After picking it inside we find some rot cut, Jimmy hats, booze, money and a knife. And then just north of this we find two locked lockers. Inside the first, 762 ammunition, money and a knife. And in the second, a knife and some 10mm ammunition. Now just north of here we see a knuck and inside we find a tribal. I didn't want to shoot first and ask questions later, inching forward, he's not hostile. If we try to talk to him, he just stares at us in silence. This is the tribal whom Stark told us was the native guide who led the raiders through the southern canyons. His name is Shadow Who Walks and he originally had a much larger role in the game. He was supposed to be the person responsible for kidnapping Suleik's sister. But as Suleik's sister was ultimately cut from Fallout 2, so was his primary role. So he just stands here, glaring at us in silence. We could kill him for the experience but he doesn't really have anything interesting on his inventory, just some healing powder. In his bookshelf, we find some Zander root, rock flower and meat jerky. Moving north, we find a knuck off to the northeast. And here we find a ton of boxes. Perhaps these are supplies that John Bishop sent them, or perhaps these were destined to Vault City, but intercepted and stolen by the mercenary gang. Annoyingly they're all empty, except for one. This blue one in the middle of the room has some meat jerky and that's about it. This south of here, we find a ladder going up. If we head upstairs, we arrive at the top of that well. So as you can see, taking this path would have made it easier to pick up some of the mercenaries one by one, instead of having to go through the traps, the scorpions and then that gauntlet, going by way of the cave. Once going top side, we get a message telling us that we've broken the raider's strength. They will no longer be able to raid the region, and we gained 2,000 experience. But we didn't finish exploring. Heading back down below, there's an entire northwestern wing, and moving that way, we find the dead body of the merc captain, whom we hadn't killed yet. So it looks like if we wipe out his primary force and then head top side, he commits suicide. That's one way to get through this without having to kill every mercenary. But we want to kill him for the experience, so reloading a save before we go up the ladder, we can now move northwest, instead of moving east. In the middle of this cave, standing against a rocky pillar, we find a bookcase, and inside we find more new Reno relics, a deck of cards, some dice, and some meat jerky. We see a tiny room with a small waterfall, just to the northeast, here we find another foot locker, and inside we find two co's dog tags. So two co must be the name of one of these mercenaries. We'll keep this to see if it becomes important later, here we also find a frag grenade, and more new Reno collectibles, Jimmy Hats, Dice, Rotgut, and Cash. Finally we can go up the tunnel to the northwest. Here we find the merc captain. Interestingly he says, that desert cherry better shape up soon. That sort of stuff won't wash around here. I'm guessing that this is a reference to Suleik's sister who was cut. I'm betting we would have freed her here in the caves, and that the mercenaries were holding her captive. She was being difficult, being defiant, and he was referring to her as a desert cherry, a desert cherry which is an evergreen shrub native to coastal California. At any rate, even though he's wearing combat armor and is heavily armed, he's only one man, and between the four of us, we can easily take him down. On his inventory, we find much of the same gear we found on all of his thugs, assault rifles, pistols, 5mm ammunition, Stimpaks, and Cash. Moving to his bedroom, we find a locker at the foot of his bed. Inside, we find Angel Eyes dog tags. Okay, so this guy's name was Angel Eyes. So two dog tags now. What do we do there for? We find a combat knife, some 44mm ammunition, and some cash. Then we see an interesting looking safe sitting to the left of his bed. You see a huge black iron safe that looks way too heavy to move. There's a combination dial on the front. We can examine this safe for traps. We don't find any traps on this safe. Alright, that's good. But then again, my character's trap skill isn't very high right now. Well, we can spin the dial and listen for clicking noises. Rest in peace, chosen one. Oh great! Of course it was booby trapped. Well, we'll just reload a save and leave this safe alone for now. To finish exploring the cave, we move west. Here we find another small bedroom and one final foot locker. After picking the lock inside, we find another pair of dog tags. These belonged to Blondie. We find a big stash of cash, more rot gut, antidote, and 44mm ammunition. Now on a hot shot took my three dog tags and went back to the safe. And with all three dog tags in our inventory, we find a new option. The chosen one can say, hmmm, maybe the numbers on these three dog tags can open the safe. There's a Kirk clank, and the safe is now unlocked. Inside, we find a blue account book. Some buff out, a guns and bullets magazine, three stem packs, a first aid kit, a cat's paw, some booze, shotgun shells, and a hefty stack of cash. Almost 500 bucks. Taking a look at this account book in our inventory, this account book lists a series of monthly payments made to the mercenary band from the Bishop family in New Reno. The payments depend heavily on how much pressure, in quotes, the mercenaries put on Vault City. Vault City might be interested in this. Well, that now gives us two pieces of information that Vault City might be interested in. Remember, we also found John Bishop's hollow tape in his safe. We'll save this for now. With the mercenary camp explored and cleared, we can head out by taking the ladder up the well. We arrive back in the ruins, and we don't find anything in these ruined houses. Here we find an exit grid back to the world map, but if we came here in our highway man, we have to go back to the Raider Stronghold and go back to the cliff to retrieve our car. Otherwise, we leave it here. Back in the highway man, we can travel to Vault City. If we tell Wallace that we wiped out the Raiders, he says, you have, that's excellent news. Please go tell the first citizen right away. If we tell Stark that we wiped out the Raiders, he says, you wipe them out? And we can say, yeah, Vault City shouldn't have to worry about them anymore. And he says, go tell the first citizen at once. She'll want to know about this immediately. So heading back to the central council, we can speak with first citizen Lynette. Yes, what is it I can help you with? I have some information on those Raiders who've been attacking this city. What is it? I wiped them out. You did it. Excellent. You have performed a valuable service for Vault City. Please accept this as a token of our appreciation. To think a band of Raiders was causing so much trouble. And we gain a thousand experience. Well, they weren't a roving band of Raiders. Turns out, they were mercenaries. Mercenaries? Who hired them? The Bishop family in New Reno. Do you have any evidence? I found this account book in the Raiders' safe, listing payments from Bishop for a three-month campaign of terror against your city. With options for one-month extensions, if you were stubborn. I'm not surprised. Bishop visited not long ago and suggested an alliance. They're refused, of course. We do not associate with criminals. I think he expected that. I found this holodisc in Bishop's safe. He was hired by NCR to get Vault City to join the Republic. When you refused his offer, he hired the mercenaries to attack you. So you would ask NCR for help. Of course. They sent mercenaries to murder my people because I wouldn't join their government. I can barely believe it. And remembering that we need to suck up to this lady, we can say, is there anything I can do to help? I need you to go immediately to New California Republic and find Councillor Weston, Roger Weston. Give him the holodisc. That should ensure no more Raiders get hired. Wait a minute. Go to NCR? Weren't they responsible for all of this? Roger Weston is probably the only honest man in the New Republic and sympathetic to our cause. All right. I'll deliver the disc to him. Your patriotism will not go un-rewarded. Go now. Time is of the essence. You can count on me, First Citizen. I'll return after I have delivered the disc to Weston. So that's why Bishop wanted Weston dead. Weston was against the NCR's plan to annex Vault City by force. Well, thankfully we've already met Weston and we chose to keep him alive, killing John Bishop instead. Heading south we can make the long trip across the wasteland past the Raiders, New Reno and Broken Hills to NCR. There we can head to the western ranch and check in with Roger Weston. You again, he says. What do you want? First Citizen Lanette sends her greetings. She's got something for you. The first citizen? Excellent, he says. This is what I've been waiting for. Are you a Vault Citizen? And at this point we are so we can say yes. And you're a good Citizen, I'm sure, says Weston. I want you to take this holo disc back to the first Citizen. It's important. It has the information she needs to expose this NCR New Reno plan. Yes, sir, we can say. Taking a look at the holo disc in our inventory, we can download the data to our Pip Boy and then read Weston's holo disc. First Citizen Lanette. The courier has delivered the disc you sent. You're correct, of course. The information should prove most useful at the next council debate. With what you have sent me, I'm certain I can hinder if not thwart any further attempts at an NCR Slash New Reno Alliance. I can only assure you that if given my way as I expect, there will be no more interference or provocations by the NCR in any of Vault Cities affairs. I for one, respect your sovereignty. And do not agree with the troublemakers who wish to deprive our innocent neighbors of their freedoms. Your friend and ally, Roger Weston. Getting back to Vault City, we can check in with Lanette. Yes, what is it I can help you with? I must speak with you on the delivery of that holo disc. Have you delivered it? Yes, I delivered the disc to Councilor Weston. Thank you. You have done a great service. Did Weston send back correspondence? Yes, I'm starting to feel like the postman here. He wanted me to give you this disc. Excellent. Let me scan this. We hand her the disc. We will not have problems with NCR for a very long time. If we simply completed the quest without impressing her, she says this. Now, regarding payment, report to Randall the Chief Amenities Officer. Tell him I sent you when he will present you with your reward. Thank you again. But if and only if we have charisma of eight or more, speech of 75% or more, and if we were respectful towards her, if not falling all over her with every dialogue option we had, addressing her formally, every time we said goodbye, instead she says, Your service has been exemplary. So much so that it is my honor to name you Captain of the Guard. Congratulations, Captain. You deserve it. Thank you, First Citizen. In addition, report to Randall the Chief Amenities Officer. Tell him I sent you and receive your reward. We are in your debt, Captain. Our reward is becoming Captain of the Guard. We'll go over exactly what that means in just a moment. But for now, we need to head to the Amenities Officer to get our reward. Heading into the Amenities office, we can speak with Randall. The First Citizen sent me here to claim my reward we can say. Yes, as Randall, the First Citizen said you'd be stopping by. Well, let me tell you, friend, you got a beauty waiting for you. What is it we can say? Nothing less than a Hechler and Coke G11, one of the best assault weapons ever made. He heaths the weapon, then passes it to us. Fire is a 4.7 millimeter caseless cartridge, 50 round magazine. When it talks, people listen. I'll bet we can say, thanks. No problem, he says. Plus here, have a couple of frag grenades on me. Consider it my thanks for wiping out those raiders. With that, we get a pretty rare weapon. This is our second G11. We found the first on the body of Frog Morton, whom we killed during my video on the town of Redding. That you can watch here. It's pretty decent in burst mode, but in single fire mode, it's really disappointing. Now, what are the benefits of being the Captain of the Guard? Well, as Captain of the Guard, we can tie up some loose ends. Heading north from here, we can go to the Correction Center to speak with Stark. You know, the guy whose job we just did, and he's suddenly very respectful. Hello, Captain, he says. Did you want something? You got some kind of problem, Sergeant, we can say. Permission to speak freely, sir, he says. Granted, we can say. You don't deserve your post. I have lived in Vault City all my life. The men and women under my command trust me and respect me, not you, sir. Now, I understand why this guy's as upset as he is. It's humiliating to be deposed like this, especially to an outsider like the Chosen One. We could try to put him in his place, but then again, we are going to have to work with this guy from now on. So, instead of making enemies, the Chosen One can say. That's why I need you at your post, Sergeant. There's no doubt that you're capable and no Vault City better than I do. Nevertheless, I have shown results where you have not. Never forget that. Understood, sir, says Stark. By the way, says the Chosen One. You the one who busted up Cassidy's bar? Yes, sir, says Stark. I conducted an authorized raid on Mr. Cassidy's establishment. But Cassidy says he was all paid up and you raided his place anyway. Says the Chosen One. No, sir, says Stark. Mr. Cassidy had not paid his licensing fee for alcohol for the month, yet was still selling it on the premises. His list of payments are logged in the computer. I believe you, Sergeant. The Chosen One can say. Well done. Now listen to me. I want you to pardon Mr. Cassidy. Wipe his record clean and pay him restitution for the damages you caused to his establishment. Yes, sir, says Stark. Now, Sergeant. Here you are, sir, says Stark. With hat, we pulled rank on Stark to help out our friend Cassidy. We earned 500 experience and 500 bucks. Disappointingly, after going through all this trouble for good old Cassidy, he doesn't remark on it. There are no new dialogue options when talking with him. If we take him down to his former bar, it's still out of business. No patrons inside. He doesn't say anything about it. So it's just a way to help our buddy out, get a small amount of cash, and a small amount of experience. Another benefit to being Captain of the Guard is as Captain we can bring super mutants and ghouls into Vault City. A deed that otherwise would turn everyone in town hostile. This time, when approaching the gate with either Marcus or Lenny or both in our party, instead of stopping us and turning us back, the guards say, Sir, yes, sir! And as Captain of the Guard, we can go into Vault 8 and get free medical care from Duck Troy, which saves us a lot of time and impacts, though later in the game, the travel all the way to Vault City might not make it worthwhile. Duck Troy will also heal for free every member of our party, even Lenny and Marcus, and he has a special interaction if we bring Marcus to get healed. Now this interaction will only work if we're Captain of the Guard and if Marcus is injured. When we ask him, can you heal my friends? He says, My! Your mutant friend has a great deal of bullets and shrapnel lodged in his body. It's a wonder he didn't have lead poisoning. I finally managed to get it all out. Here it all is. Then, if we inspect our inventory, we find 20 rounds of 762 millimeter ammunition, 50 rounds of 5 millimeter jacketed hollow point ammunition, 20 rounds of 9 millimeter balls, 24 rounds of 10 millimeter jacketed hollow point ammunition, 10 rounds of 45 caliber ammunition, 40 rounds of 44 magnum full metal jacket ammunition. How these bullets can still be fired after having already been fired and lodged into the Bonnie of a super mutant? I don't know, but I'm not going to question it. It's free ammunition. I'll take it. Now we need to head back to New Reno to meet the final crime boss of the city, but along the way... Once again, my spirit touches you from the void. Chosen, our crops fail, our reserves are meager. Return to us with the gag. Your failure is our last light. Oh Hakunan, I almost forgot. We've been preoccupied with solving all of New Reno's problems. We almost forgot all about the gag. We need to make this quick so we can continue our search for the gag. Let's see where were we. Something about Vault 15, maybe having the coordinates for Vault 13, NCR might have more information. Well, let's finish up with New Reno. Then head to NCR to see if we can pick up the trail. But we'll continue with that task in my next episode. I publish many Fallout videos each and every week on my channel, so don't want to miss the next episode. Be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. Lions pride. The Brotherhood does its best, but sometimes they need a little something special. That's where Lions pride comes in. This brand new design comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find it on other products as well, like smartphone cases, stickers, prints, mugs, posters, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.