In our last episode, we finally got the tanker working and arrived at the Enclave's base. Control Station Enclave. A Poseidon energy oil rig in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. We quickly realized that the Enclave soldiers and security here would figure out that we're infill traders if we walked around with a brain-bought, talking death cloth tribal and bartender. So we left our companions at the entrance to the oil rig and went deeper in alone. Disguised as an Enclave soldier, after hacking into some terminals, we discovered that the Enclave had modified FEV, the forced evolutionary virus, to turn it into a dangerous toxin that they were planning to use to poison everyone on Earth, leaving only the Enclave left to repopulate the planet. That's why they kidnapped our tribes people at a Royal, and that's why they kidnapped the citizens of Vault 13 to use them as test subjects for this toxin. We learned from a terminal entry and from talking to our elder and the overseer of Vault 13, both of whom we found on the detention level, that if we blow up the computers controlling the Vault-tech-built nuclear reactor that was powering the station, we could cause a meltdown. And at the same time, release all of our tribes people from captivity. And so we went deeper. After solving an electrified maze, we arrived on the fourth floor of control station on Clive. After passing through a couple of doors, we find ourselves in a narrow rectangular room, with a door in the eastern wall and a door in the northern wall. The desks and lockers in this room are empty to continue we'll go through the western door. We again find a blast door to the south that we can't activate. This door must be part of the emergency escape plan that we read about in case the reactor overloads. We'll have to remember this for later. Here we find a number of civilian rooms. What are you, they say? The project is proceeding well. But all the rooms along this corridor are empty and uninteresting. There's an exercise room, a bathroom, two bedrooms, but no containers, or anything to interact with. At the end of the hallway, it moves north, and we arrive at another split. The northern wall is lined with doors. We'll move west for now. Opening a door in the south leads to a war room. In the middle of the room, we find the war room table, with a map of the globe, and what appear to be, what are those? Ships, stations all over the earth? It's interesting to note that most of these gray dots are in the sea. Could these be other enclave bases? Is this the only one? Moving out of the war room, we can open the door directly across the hall. We find a large situation room, regarded by only one officer. Against the northern wall, we find another map of the globe. But this one is different. Instead of a bunch of gray dots in the ocean, we see a number of red dots on land. What could these mean? Are these also bases of enclave activity worldwide? Or could they be markers? That nation-science for the nuclear bombs that destroyed the world so many years ago? It's interesting to note that in the United States of America, at least, we find two of these markers in southern California, one in Florida, one on the East Coast, possibly marking DC. What we now know became the capital wasteland. And one slightly northwest of DC, could that be West Virginia? Interesting to note that Boston is not marked here. If these are nuclear detonation sites, and if this map can be believed, then China was barely hit at all. Of course, these lights could be denoting something completely different. Military installations, perhaps. It's likely that the enclave has a lot of knowledge about what happened all those years ago. Be ashamed to lose it all once we destroy this rig. But our tribe comes first. Moving out of the situation room and down the hallway, we hear a man speaking to himself in the next room to the West. You're all against me, aren't you? Aren't you? Moving inside, we see him standing by his desk. Where did my two gallons of strawberry ice cream go? Pretty, pretty. Fast as fast can be, they won't catch me. P-O-T-A-T-O-E. The cane is my ship. Mind you hear me? T-O-M-A-T-O. Shiny. No, no, uh-uh, no. No! I don't want to be the patient this time. No, mommy. I didn't do it. Don't hit me again. Talking to this poor, deranged soul. Hello, Trooper, he says. What are you doing in the Vice President's office? Oh, so this is the Vice President. We learned his name on the entryway terminal. Vice President D. Berg. Daniel Berg. And we read his private notes, including his, um, word list. Uh, I'm just on routine patrol. Uh, sir. Carry on, then, Trooper. Carry on, he says. You lads are doing a great service. We are ready for any unforeseen event that may or may not occur. Huh? We can say. And then he pauses. Hmm, he says. Tell me. How do you spell, psycho, with a pee or without? And remembering the unique spelling choices of the Vice President that we read in his word list that we downloaded from the entryway terminal, we can say, um, without, of course. And he says, perhaps that's best. Keep it brief. After all, verbosity leads to unclear, inarticulate things. Imagine that we can say. And he says, well, you can't be too careful. After all, people that are really very weird can get into sensitive positions and have a tremendous impact on history. Exactly what impact are you planning to have on history we can ask? And he says, um, I see. Well, as you may know, I've long thought that it's time for the human race to enter the solar system. How would we do that? We can ask. And he says, for NASA, space is still a high priority. I see, says the chosen one. And where would we be going then? And the Vice President says, I think that maybe Mars would be nice, because Mars is essentially in the same orbit. Mars is somewhat the same distance from the Sun, which is very important. We've seen pictures where there are canals, we believe, and water. If there's water, that means there's oxygen. If oxygen, that means we can breathe. And the chosen one can say, I didn't expect such a complete answer. And the Vice President says, of course, you do. Of course, Annie Loyal said, a son of these great United States would do the same. Why is that? We can ask. And he says, we have to work together, because if we don't succeed, we run the risk of failure. Maybe your failure wouldn't be such a bad thing, we can say. And he says, I mean that we don't want to go back to tomorrow. We want to go forward. Isn't that the only way to go? We can say. And he says, yes, I like that direction. I have made good judgments in the past. I have made good judgments in the future. So by all means, let's go in that direction. Yes, says the chosen one. I believe we are on an irreversible trend towards more freedom and democracy, but that could change. But the chosen one can say, the polluted environment of the wastes could use a little freedom for a change. Don't be silly, says the Vice President. It isn't pollution that's harming the environment. It's the impurities in our air and water that are doing it. The chosen one can say, well, you wouldn't be so flippant about it if you were on the mainland. And he says, well, that's just the thing. The enclave is a man-made island surrounded by water. You think you're immune to what happens here, says the chosen one indignantly, but you're stuck on the same planet with the rest of us. But here, Vice President Bird goes back into his weird Mars dialogue. So instead we can say, you've lost your mind. And he says, what a waste it is to lose one's mind. Or not to have a mind is being very wasteful. How true that is. I'd say it's usually a waste, we can say. But in your case, I'm willing to make an exception. And the Vice President says, I am not part of the problem. I am a Republican. And our chosen one's only option is to say, like I said, part of the problem. That's not true, says the Vice President. Republicans understand the importance of bondage between a mother and a child. That's the key to the solution of all of our problems. We need a return to family values. The chosen one can say what you and the enclave are up to, has nothing to do with family values. But he says, I stand by all the mistakements that I've made. Don't you understand? Says the chosen one, you'll create another Holocaust if you continue. But he says the Holocaust was an obscene period in our nation's history. I mean, in this century's history. But we all lived in this century. I didn't live in this century. You're a flippin' loony we can say. And he says, hmm, tell me, how do you spell tomato with an E or without? Without we can say. But then he just goes back into his previous dialogue, repeating himself. At any point, we can simply say, I'm here to kill you. And he says, you won't get away with it. And we can say why not? And he says, one word sums up probably the responsibility of any vice president. And that one word is to be prepared. Oh, now we understand why to be prepared was on his word list. He thinks it's a word. Gotcha. Isn't that three words we can say? Preparedness as one word. Isn't that what you meant? No, it just gets psyched back into his dialogue tree. Vice President Bird here is a reference to former Vice President Dan Quail. Bird? Quail? Get it? D Bird here is just a vehicle for quailisms. This entire conversation we just had with Bird is comprised of quotes that Dan Quail actually said, including the bondage between a mother and child thing, including the Mars thing, including the Holocaust thing. According to Snopes, the only quailism that interplay included in this dialogue that Quail didn't actually say is the one about pollution and the environment. That one was actually penned by a humor columnist trying to pick fun at him. But all the other ones were real millions of innocent people. Lost their lives because of the bigotry and hitlerism that permeated Germany and other parts of the world. It wasn't a obscene period in our nation's history. Not our nations, but in World War II. We all lived in this century. I didn't live in this century, but in this century's history. We did not have a matter of fact we fought Hitlerism, which was such a talitarian form of government. That may just tell you how thrilling it really is and what a challenge it is because in 1988, the question is whether we're going to go forward to tomorrow or we're going to go past to the back. And I can tell you, listen, we don't want to go back to tomorrow. We want to move forward. I believe that I've made a good judgment and a pass. And I think I've made good judgments in the future. And the future will be better tomorrow. The spelling of tomato potato and psycho and all of that is in reference to one of his most famous gaffes where he was judging in a school spelling bee. And when a kid spelled potato correctly, he told him he had spelled it wrong. I think that one little bit on the end. Our guy was prone to public speaking gaffes and misstatements. And he's being lampooned here in Fallout 2. Also evidenced by all of that talking to himself that we observed before we came into this room. In particular, that one line where he's talking about the ship Kane and how it was his is a reference to the 1954 film called The Kane Mutiny based on the 1951 novel by Herman Woke of the same name, which is a story about a US naval captain who goes insane forcing his first officer to relieve him of command for which he faces a court marshal from mutiny. And the fastest fast can be you'll never catch me, but trace the kind of television that vice president bird enjoys, because that's a reference to America's funniest people, one of the most cringe-inducing television shows of the 90s that had a recurring gag, including a jackalope who would run around causing mischief saying his famous phrase. When done with the vice president, we can open a large door against the northern wall decorated with the presidential seal. And inside, we find the president of the United States of America, Dick Richardson, standing behind his desk. Hello, I'm the president of the United States of America, and you are... I'm your executioner. Uh, no, no, no, no, let's... uh, what does it you want anyway? I want you dead. Ah, ah, guards, guards. Or instead of starting off on that foot, we can say the president, what are you talking about? I am the elected representative of the people. The United States does still exist. God bless us, everyone. We've just had to adapt in order to survive after the war. Oh, I'm lost. I can see you're a busy man, Mr. President. I'll just be leaving now. Goodbye. Ah, that's a shame. Conversation with a genuine mutant like you. And it certainly paint me a picture of what life's like in that radioactive hell on the mainland. Radioactive hell? You don't get out much, do you? We try to keep ourselves safe and secure from radiation. That's what separates humans like me from mutants like you. Why do you keep calling me a mutant? Because you are. Your tribe's DNA has changed since your ancestor left the vault. Unavoidable. All that background radiation you've been exposed to. Creatures change all the time. It's called evolution. Without that change, you and I would still be two bits of protoplasmic goo. Very moving. But the radical changes your villagers and other mutants show as a far cry from the gradual changes of natural evolution. Maybe we're changing into a better version of the human race. Did you ever think of that? It's very possible, indeed, in which case our mission is even more vital to the survival of the human race. Huh? What do you mean by that? I don't think this tired old planet's big enough for two top dogs. If it's us or you, well, I'm going to choose us. I don't think you get to make that kind of choice. As the embodiment of the executive branch, I bear the burden of ensuring the survival and prosperity of the United States and of humanity itself. A heavy burden. And yet, if it means the return of the Earth to our children and to their children, I bear it gladly. I'm damn curious as to what's going on here. Be really don't know, do you? Let me tell you about mankind's salvation. A little history first. First, why do you have a base in Navarro? Simple. Navarro is an isolated base. Our vertebrates have a limited range. They refuel there. Makes sense. Uh, hmm. A little history. Well, before you get into that, I saw some of your vertebrates doing some trade with New Reno. What's that all about? We've run short of certain critical chemicals. We can get them from the drug labs of New Reno. If the mutant mobsters use our guns to kill each other, just saves us the trouble. Everything works in your favor, huh? Tell me the rest of the story. Uh, hmm. A little history. Go on, Mr. President. There was a great war. Long before we were born. Our gallant soldiers fought from the Yukon to the Yank Sea. Yeah, I knew about that part. Go on. We were winning, too. And then those damn reds launched. We barely got our birds up. Doesn't seem as though it helped much. Well, no, it didn't. But at least it knocked the damn red menace back into the Stone Age. And us with it. Well, no. No, not quite. You see, we had planned ahead. We were ready. What do you mean? We had a number of sanctuaries that would enable the glorious American civilization to endure. This facility, the vaults were part of the great plan. Those damn vaults didn't work the way they were supposed to. A lot of people in them died. Actually, they worked almost exactly the way they were supposed to. You might call it a social experiment on a grand scale. An experiment? The vaults were set up to test humanity. Some had not enough food synthesizers. Others had only men in them. Yet others were designed to open after only six months. They each had a unique set of circumstances designed to test the occupants. What about Vault 13? What was its purpose? Ah, Vault 13 was a special case. It was supposed to remain closed until the subjects were needed. Vault 13 was, in scientific parlance, a control group. But they would have all died if my ancestor didn't get them a replacement water chip. And that doesn't seem to fit in with your plan. And unfortunate and unforeseen accident. However, as it turns out, a rather fortuitous one. What do you mean? As it turns out, we needed test subjects from untainted pre-war humans' dock. Your ancestors involved 13. And some freshly mutated stock. The villagers from Arroyo. Why? For the project. It's almost ready. Humanity salvation is almost at hand and the United States of America will be the progenitor of that rebirth. Rebirth? What do you mean? The only way for true humans and democracy to be safe is to cleanse the mutants from the globe. We humans will take back that which is rightfully ours. I'm a true human too. I'm sure you think so. But tests performed on your tribesmen have all shown that you are guilty of mutation. And it's a damn good thing the project is ready. Why? Some of the members of your tribe are showing some extremely interesting changes. If the danger to true humanity weren't so great, I would think about studying them, but it's not to be. Not to be? Why not? The project will cleanse all the mutants from our fair land. And the rest of the globe. Once again, America will be the world's policeman. Cleanse the mutants? That sounds a bit drastic. How are you going to do that? We found a research facility in operational shape about 70 years ago. A former military base that had been used to research a special virus. A virus? Yes, the FEV virus. It was originally developed to turn soldiers into super warriors, but it failed. The warriors were tough and strong, but far too stupid. However, our brilliant chemical core altered it. Altered the virus? Why? To turn it into a staggeringly effective killer. Any humanoid that isn't denoculated against its effects before its release will die. That is the project. That is insane. No, no, that's humanity's last best hope. That's what we've been working towards all these years. Great, so you have all of this poison and no way to spread it around. Oh, but that's one of the advantages of the FEV virus. We can pre-least sit right here, and the jet string will carry it worldwide. It'll have plenty of time to cleanse every nook and cranny of the globe. Okay. Then why did you have to kidnap my villagers and the people from Vault 13? Test subjects? Your villagers are all descended from Vault Stock, and we had to make sure that the FEV toxin was still effective. The subjects from Vault 13 test that and an inoculation against the FEV. You're not testing the inoculation on my people? It's hardly necessary. I'm sure we could, and it would work, but there's no reason to do so. Did it ever occur to you that what you're doing is wrong? Never. Part of the president's job is to make the tough decisions. A lot of near-humans will sacrifice their lives for the return of humanity. Humans will prevail. There's no way in hell that I can let you do this. You can't stop it. The tests are complete, and the toxin is ready for release. In hours, your villagers will be the first to make the ultimate sacrifice. The other mutants will follow. An unfortunate footnote in the continuing history of the human race. Just because everyone out there doesn't have an exact copy of your DNA doesn't give you a license to exterminate them? Oh, I don't relish this decision. If there was another way, but there isn't. No price is too high for the survival of the human race. If you were human, you'd feel the same way. You really believe that, don't you? Yes, I do. Even killing me won't help you. There's nothing you can do to stop the release. Maybe I'll just figure out a way to give you a taste of your own medicine. You could try, I suppose, but soon the staff of the Enclave and Navarro will be inoculated. No, wait a minute. They aren't all ready. We just have to distribute the supplies, the matter of ours. Besides, the Enclave is a sealed unit. No error or contaminants get in or get out. Oh, well I see. In the meantime, I'm taking you out of the picture, personally. You might find that tougher than you think. If you do, I'll go to my reward knowing that I died a patriot and a servant of humanity. At this point, we can walk away without killing him by saying, right now, I'll let you think about your coming death. Don't touch the alarm. Goodbye. Or we can kill him by saying, time for your reward. If we do, every Enclave soldier on this level rushes into the room. And robots come from a room nearby. We now have to kill everyone on this floor. Even if we're trying to covertly sneak our way through this level, it's still important to kill President Richardson. There are ways to do so covertly. If you stand in the back of his room, you're far enough away from everyone else that you can kill him without everyone turning hostile. But the reason we have to kill him is because on his body we find the Presidential Access Key. And we can't pick pocketed from him. This will become extremely important a bit later. However, we could have chosen to let him live. And even after having that conversation where he discovered who exactly we are, we can still wander, control station, enclave free without being attacked. There's nothing in his office so we can move on by opening the door to the west. Here we see a somewhat plump blonde secretary in a tight dress. Then I'd call him Dick Richardson for nothing. I do too know how to type. I think it's time for a raise. I don't think I'll wash this dress. It might come in handy. That's um, yeah, that's a low-inski reference. Come back later. I'm going to be busy in a minute here. You're not taping me, are you? So what's Mr. Important up to? Yeah, what you want, honey? Thanks. It's almost as if he got his secretary from New Reno. Her desk is empty so moving on we can open a big sliding door to the north. Here we find a staircase going downstairs to the right, but we'll go down there in just a bit. Instead we can finish exploring this level by opening the door in the wall to the west. Going down a hallway and turning south, we find a lab with an open door to the left. Inside we find a bunch of machinery. Strangely enough we find a bomb. The game describes it as a bomb. You think this is the thing we have to tamper with, but no, it's not. I guess we'll just leave this here. Instead we can open a door in the northern side of this room to enter a scientist's bedroom. Here we can talk with Dr. Charles Curling. Welcome to the Chemical Core Section, trooper. I am Lieutenant Colonel Dr. Charles Curling. Now that we've been introduced, get the hell out of my lab. I'm not who you think I am, we can say. I'm Oxhorn from Arroyo, and we've got something to talk about. Well, Oxhorn says Dr. Curling. I don't know how you escaped your cell, but I don't think we have anything to talk about. And the chosen one can say that's where you're wrong. A couple of times. You need to talk to me, says Dr. Curling. Who were you? And why should I spend time talking to you? I'm from Arroyo, we can say, and I need to talk to you about saving thousands of lives. I don't see that there's much I need to talk about with a mutant, says Dr. Curling. Soon, when the real humans retake the planet for their own, they'll just be another unfortunate reminder of the war. Real humans, we can say? What are you talking about? I'm as human as you are. Oh, he says your DNA is more than just a little different. It's quite different. If I weren't so pressed for time by the project, I'd be interested in running further tests on your people. Other than the FEV toxicological study, of course. Fascinating work, really. How's our DNA different, we can ask? Oh, there are a number of primarily very subtle changes, says Dr. Curling. I haven't had time to look into the ramifications of the changes yet, though. Also, I'd have to backtrack to Isolation or Initial Genestock before I could hazard any ideas on the direction the changes are taking. All in all, though, the information is clear enough. What is clear enough, we can say? What information? Why the information that you and your tribe are no longer human, of course? Since your tribe has only been out of the vault, let's see, Vault 13, was it? For some 80 odd years, anyone out longer is certain to have been even more compromised. Yes, I'm afraid that the conclusion is unavoidable. Conclusion, we can say? What conclusion? And Dr. Curling says, why I thought I had made myself perfectly clear. The conclusion that you and all of your kind are no longer human. In order to retake the Earth and to maintain the integrity of the human race, all you mutants will have to be destroyed. Destroyed? What do you mean, we can say? And he says, the project that the enclave has dedicated itself to these past several decades has been the reestablishment of the human race upon the continental United States. God bless America. That doesn't sound as though it would take decades to achieve, we can say. And he says, oh, just establishing an outpost wouldn't take long. We've already done that at Navarro, but it has taken a long time to work out the proper method for the eradication procedure. Irradication procedure we can ask? And he says, why yes? We can't move back to the mainland only to risk contamination by all of the mutated near humans there. In order to make the United States safer humanity, all of the mutants must first be exterminated. Exterminated, we can ask, how are you going to do that? The FEV toxin, he says, it's the perfect solution for this difficult problem. What's the FEV toxin? And he says, one of our patrols found the research data and several samples about the FEV virus in a former military research base that had been almost completely destroyed. Okay, we can say, now I know where you found it, but what does it do? And he says, the FEV was initially designed as a virus that was supposed to turn humans into super soldiers. That experiment seems to have been an utter failure, although I did try a modification of the virus on one of our secret service agents with some success. Great for you, we can say. But how does that have anything to do with eradicating everyone? Oh, yes, well, I was getting to that. The FEV virus bond in species specific. It will only bond with human glyso proteins. It only took a few years to tweak the FEV virus to make it more lethal than it already was. The result was just what the doctor ordered, perfect in every way. Perfect, we can say. How so? Isn't it obvious my mutated friend says Dr. Kerning? The FEV is, thanks to me, a lethal toxin, and thanks to some mysterious genius named, rather dramatically, the master, it only works on humans, mutated or not. So we can say? Well, that means that we have the perfect disposal device for all of the near-human mutants infecting the globe. But says the chosen one, I still don't understand how that's perfect. And he says, the FEV toxin will only attack humans, leaving everything else alive, better still, within a month, all the mutants will be dead, and the FEV toxin will die out as soon as it runs out of hosts. The chosen one can say, there can't be enough vertebrates here to spread the toxin all over the globe, and it says you're right, there aren't. But we don't need them. We have a release system that will spray the FEV toxin straight from the vats to the outside atmosphere. The jet stream will take care of the rest, global saturation within two weeks. Two weeks we can say? Yes, two weeks for the virus to spread, says Kerling. Another month or so for a to run its course, and then the United States will be ready for recolonization by real humans. Our species will have been saved. You really think you're doing the right thing, don't you, we can say? Yes, I do, says Dr. Kerling. There is no price too high to pay for the survival of one species. I'd agree with you on that, says the chosen one, but has it occurred to you that the mutants, as you call them, are just another type of human? That's preposterous, says Dr. Kerling. You're no more like me than a mutated two-headed cow is like a normal heifer. But the chosen one in his infinite wisdom can say, if there were mono-headed cows at one time, they've long since died out. But the cow, as a species, has survived and grown stronger. Change is an integral part of the natural order. And Dr. Kerling pauses. I hadn't ever stopped to think about it that way. Please, give me a minute while I think this over very carefully. Not so okay, we can say. Take your time, Dr., it's a big concept to swallow. And after a moment, Dr. Kerling says, I hate to admit this, but you may be right. What we've been planning all along just isn't right. I was so blinded by trying to overcome the obstacles that I didn't think about the morality of my quest. Well, says the chosen one. Now that you've thought about it, you should destroy the toxin. That might, says Kerling. No, no, that wouldn't work. Why not, we can ask? Because they just start over, he says. Even with me dead, there's enough data between here and Navarro to assure that they could replicate my work. Only something more drastic will be enough. More drastic we can say? What do you mean? And he says, the enclave must be destroyed, completely destroyed. If we're not, then we'll just pick up the pieces and start over somewhere else. I'm sorry to hear that we can say. Dr., how do you suggest that the enclave be destroyed? I think that the best way is to just release the FEV toxin into the air filtration system. Since the enclave is a sealed system, that should take care of everyone. Well, what about my people, we can say? Or me? Or you for that matter? And he says, I can release the antidote into the air system for all the cells. The detention level is served by a separate air system from the rest of the enclave. Everyone will think that I'm just running another test. You, I can inoculate directly, here and now. And he reaches for us with a syringe. Ouch! Thanks, Doc, we can say. What happens when the FEV toxin is released? And he says, it's not pretty. You should leave as soon as possible. But I'd rather have the weight of a thousand on my conscience than several hundred thousand. Our time is through here. We had our chance. How can I free my people from the detention area we can ask? And he says, you should probably shut down the power. I know that the reactor is controlled by a large computer near the reactor bay, but I don't know exactly what you need to do to shut the reactor down. Thankfully, we learned exactly what to do by reading Tom's memo in our last episode. And the chosen one can say, thanks for the information you've given me. Your sacrifice will be remembered by all the peoples of the earth. And he says, when the stars threw down their spears, and what are heaven with their tears? Did he smile his work to see? Did he who made the lamb make thee? Ha, says the chosen one. And he says, oh, just something I remembered from a long dead poet. The poet was William Blake in his poem, The Tiger, TYGR. But he continues, I was wondering if there's still a place for those who've worked towards such a dark end for so long. Our time is over. Yours has just begun. Get going. Oh, okay, says the chosen one. Thanks for all your help, doctor. You're a brave man. With that, our Pipboy picks up the toxins, warning, toxins released into the air ducts. After a while, a few of the citizens and scientists will fall down dead, but not all of them. But this still doesn't change our task. We still have to go blow up those computers. In Dr. Curling's room, we find a copy of Dean's electronics in his bookshelf, and a big book of science in the other bookshelf. Heading out of his lab, we can open a door to the self, then open a door to the West. This leads to another lab filled with big tanks, possibly containing FEV. The toxin is beginning to get to the scientists. I'm getting too weak to stand here. But this leads to a dead end. Turning around and repracing our steps, we can open a door into a supply room to the east. There are a number of boxes here, but they're all empty. With this level explored, we can now take the staircase in the northeastern corner to go down to the final floor. We arrive in yet another long hallway. There is a door to the West, which leads to another barracks. Inside, we find a number of other lockers. Here's everything we find. 5mm ammunition, 5mm armor piercing ammunition, small energy cells, a couple of stem packs, and a grenade. We've got a hazardous situation here, says one enclave scientist. In the fallokers, we find three throwing knives, a small stash of money, and a combat knife. Get yourself into a clear area. Now, some days it don't pay to get out of bed. There are foot lockers on the opposite side of the room. We find a 10mm SMG and ammunition in one, and a ripper in another. Then, looting the final bank of lockers, we find a collection of thrown explosives, a hunting rifle, more 2mm EC ammunition, and more 4.7mm caseless ammunition. Heading out of this room and crossing the hall, we find another room with more enclave soldiers inside. Didn't you notice the alarm? Every inspection is a parade. There are no containers here, so moving out and heading south, we can turn east and open a door which leads to a computer room. The air burns my throat, says one of the civilians. These computers all connect to Poseidonet, but we don't see a mainframe here, so these must not be the computers that we need. Against the southern wall, we find another door which leads to another scientist's office. I love my works, as one enclave soldier. Now, if we got Dr. Curling to release FEV into the station, the scientist standing behind the desk won't talk with us. What's going on here, he says. But if we skip Dr. Curling, or chose not to infect the air, we can talk with this man. I'm Tom Murray, he says, head of the Atomic Energy Consortium. Tom, the guy who wrote the memo, that gave us all the info we needed to know to blow this place up. I control our atomic power plant here. Who the hell are you? And what are you doing here, he says. Oh, I was just curious as to how your reactor works, we can say. And he says, I don't control that much of the reactor's operation. The central control computer just north of the reactor controls most of the power plant functions. If that weren't there, we'd have no power at all. No power at all we can ask. Well, he says, not enough for much, the lights, life support, and defenses would work for a while, but force fields and other power intensive devices would be shut down immediately. Sounds as though you'd be really crippled we can observe. And he says, well, it wouldn't be good. All kinds of watertight security doors close when that happens. No way in the world to open them once they're closed by the power shut off, that's a safety feature. Well, we can say, I need to shut down your atomic reactor. Shut it down, since Tom, are you crazed? You're not going to shut down my reactor. Yes, I am, we can say. You better tell me how, or I'll shut you down permanently. And Tom proves to be very accommodating. Here, he says, I'll tell you what, I'll do it for you, but if you try to shut it down too fast, it'll overheat. A lot of care about that says the chosen one. Just shut down the reactor, or I'll gut you like a fish. Okay, okay, I'll do it, says Tom. Just take it easy now, but I'm telling you, it's going to overheat as soon as I put the containment rods down. If we perform a crash shutdown like this, we'll have to scram the whole reactor. Or we better learn to speak Chinese. Yeah, whatever we can say, just shut the damn thing down right now. You got it, says Tom. Okay, uh, slide this to green, and he fiddles with the control panel for a few minutes while he mutters to himself. Okay, you got it, but it sure isn't going to stay stable for very long. You did the right thing, we can say. Now I've got to be going. You better just keep quiet in here for a while. And with that, our Pip-Boy detects danger, warning, complete reactor meltdown. We have 10 minutes to evacuate control station on-clave. We've done it, we've destroyed the reactor. Right now the force fields to the cells are opening, and our tribes people and the vault dwellers are taking the escape route back to the PMV Valdez. But if we don't want to solve this problem using dialogue, we can do it the good old fashioned way. Blow it up. But to do that, we've got to find it. Opening a door in the eastern wall, we arrive in a bit of a computer room, lots of empty containers and tape reels along the wall. Radiation is really going to screw up my work, says the scientist. But the citizens don't appear to be taking the alarm seriously. That thing's always breaking down. Just another grill. Opening a door in the middle of the northern wall, we arrive in a bit of an operating room. The scientist here is feeling a bit queasy. Opening a door to the right, we arrive in a hallway. Following it north, we can open a door to the east. And this brings us to the computer mainframe room. Now we do see a room just to the south of us here. There appears to be some sort of large machine and a bunch of tanks in there and a freight elevator. But there is no way in the game to get to this section. This must be the Vault Technuclear reactor, because Tom Murray told us that the mainframe was just north of it. If we want to do this the good old fashioned way, we need to drop an explosive right by these computer terminals. This is the only way we can destroy the computer mainframe that operates the oil rig reactor. Thankfully, we found some plastic explosives in one of the lockers in the barracks on the top floor. So grabbing one of these we can set a timer and drop it right in front of the computer. Now a couple of times when I did this, I immediately turned the scientist's tossed home. I dropped the dynamite, they pulled out their weapons and attacked me. I had to clear the entire floor just to get out of here. But after having Tom caused the meltdown, for some reason after planting the explosives, they didn't attack. After a while, we destroyed the reactor and we gained 10,000 experience. No matter which way we chose, at this point we've got to high-tail it out of there. Heading back upstairs we can retrace our steps. We find that the doorway leading back to the maize room above us is now blocked off. But the doorway leading to the spiral staircase that was at one time locked is now open. This is the escape route. It's been triggered due to the nuclear meltdown. Taking it upstairs, we arrive at the top floor of the oil rig in the barracks behind the other door that we couldn't access when we explored it in my last episode. We now have to race out of the barracks, go back to the entrance room, gather our companions and hop in the PMV Valdez to high-tail it out of here as soon as possible. And I'm sorry, I hate to do it again, but I'm all out of time. We'll pick up right here where we leave off for the dramatic conclusion of Fallout 2 in tomorrow's episode. I publish many Fallout videos each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss that episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you haven't, you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxwarn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. Onclave. Boaster support for the onclave and everything they stand for with this brand new design. This design comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wide array of colors. You can find it on other products as well, like smartphone cases, posters, mugs, pillows, tickers, prints, etc. So with interest, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with the dramatic conclusion to the full story of Fallout 2.