When the showrunners set out to make the Fallout show, they consciously chose to make a brand new story with brand new characters set after the events of all of the previous games. But by setting it on the west coast, they had to tackle some of the places and factions that were already there and had already been explored in other games. And one of these factions is the new California Republic, the NCR. The story of the NCR changed more greatly due to the Fallout show than the story of any other faction. Let's piece together what happened to the NCR based on the clues we get from the Fallout show and speculate as to what the future of the NCR looks like. It probably goes without saying, but this video has major plot spoilers. So if you want to avoid spoilers, turn back now. By the events of Fallout New Vegas, the NCR was a true nation with a president, with a senate, with voting, with a standing army, and they were expanding east into the Mahave wasteland. In 2277, they had already defeated Caesar's Legion in the first battle for Hoover Dam, and by 2281, they were gearing up for the second battle of Hoover Dam. Around this time, Rose McClain fled from Vault 33 with her two children, Lucy, and Norm. She left because she learned that her husband, Hank, had been lying to her. She realized that something strange was going on in Vault 31, perhaps she learned what Norm did, that the voting system for Vaults 33 and 32 were rigged, and overseers were always elected from Vault 31. Perhaps she devined the ultimate experiment of Vault tech. She fled Vault 33 and stumbled upon the town of Shady Sands. Shady Sands was the first village the Vault Dweller stumbles upon in the very first Fallout game. After saving Tandy, the daughter of Eridash, the town's leader, Shady Sands grew from a village into a thriving nation, but Shady Sands remained the capital of that nation, the New California Republic. Now in the games, the location of Shady Sands is a bit of a ways away from Hollywood, but in the show, apparently Shady Sands is really close to Vault 33, really close to the ruins of Hollywood Boulevard. The people of the NCR took Rose and her children in with open arms. There she found a thriving society, a civilization. Everything the people of Vault 33 were supposed to rebuild after Reclamation Day. Everything Vault tech told her couldn't possibly exist on the surface. 34,000 people lived here after the war. The entire purpose of my Vault was to come up to the surface one day and restart civilization. It's Reclamation Day. It's what keeps us all going and it already happened without us. There she met Moldaver, who lived before the bomb dropped and we don't know exactly how she's here 200 years later. Perhaps they'll expound upon that during season 2. And from all appearances, she and Moldaver became close, but Hank couldn't let her escape. In his own words, he said that by leaving the Vault, she essentially betrayed him. I loved your mother, but she stopped beating your mother when she left home. But she took you into danger. She no longer was his wife. She no longer was the mother of his children. She was a kidnapper and a thief who had his children. That was the entire purpose of the Vault 31-32 and 33 experiment to create a generation of supermanagers bred from the likes of Hank McLean and other residents of Vault 31 and regular Vault Wellers in 32 and 33. By taking her and Hank's children out of the Vault, she ruins Vault tech's experiment. In his mind, that was all the justification he needed to leave Vault 33, presumably with Betty. He took the children and he burned that city to the ground. Betty, one of my mother died, what happened to her pit-boy? It was buried with her. How are you so sure? Because I buried her myself. Me and your father. They tell us this story in passing, but somehow he was able to go into Shady Sands, the capital of an entire nation with a standing army and retrieve his children Lucian Dorm without either of them remembering it and with apparently very little resistance. But the existence of Shady Sands, the existence of the NCR, was a huge problem for Hank McLean. Because it directly conflicted with Vault tech's philosophy, or at least the philosophy of Bud Askins. Our vaults have the resources to survive for centuries. Meanwhile our competitors, you know, every other human who is in us, will be dead on the surface. Askins had assumed that after the bomb dropped, either no one above ground would survive, they'd be dead, or if they did survive they'd pose no threat to the surviving members of Vault tech and the residents of their vaults. But here, Hank McLean sees that that's not the case. These people, unaffiliated with Vault tech, not only survived, but thrived, founded a nation, founded a democracy. Instead of seeing this as evidence that Vault tech's experiment was wrong, he saw it as an obstacle that needed to be removed to prove Vault tech right. And so Hank McLean did the unthinkable. He destroyed Shady Sands. They don't tell us how. Did he drop a bomb? Did he fire a missile? Did he detonate something buried beneath the ruins of Shady Sands? We don't know, they don't tell us. Perhaps we'll learn more in season two. But the evidence is clear. Shady Sands was destroyed sometime after the events of Fallout New Vegas. We're careful about the timeline. There might be a little bit of confusion in some places, but everything that happened in the previous games, including New Vegas, happened. We're threading it tight there, but the bomb falls just after the events of New Vegas. All that's left is a giant gaping crater. And here it is, 15 years later, it's still a crater. It's still irradiated, and the NCR has not come back to rebuild. This has left a vacuum. Lawless scrap settlements like Philly began to spring up where there was no rule of law where violence and murder was common. And mobsters moved in to fill the vacuum that the NCR had left. We find some guys in cowboy hats and uniforms who claim to be part of the government. Destroying a legitimate business. That's illegal around these parts. Sess of the government. But notice that they don't call themselves the New California Republic. They don't call themselves NCR. These people are not members of NCR. They're mobsters who've moved in to rule over wastelanders in the absence of an elected government. A lot like Gizmo from Junktown in Fallout 1. Now in name, Junktown was ruled over by Killian Darkwater, the grandson of the town's founder. But in practice, the richest man in town, Gizmo, ruled the town's casino, had enough money to pay for thugs, and used his mobsters to exert influence over the town. Much to the chagrin of Killian Darkwater. Similarly, this guy offers protection to those who were useful to him. That's the president of the government you're talking to. You a president now. Don't say why not. Well, you might want to hire a publicist. Call this the first time I'm here to buy this outfit. Somebody's got to step up and bring some order around here. You know why these boys brought you in? Calls off the purple defense gang affiliated organ dealership. Yep, but that super duper smart you've got it was under our protection. They offered protection to organ harvesters because they gave him some of their profits. He's not related to the NCR. He's a mobster posing as a governor. From everything we see in the show, the NCR is gone. And they have no governmental structure in place. But Lucian Maximus find a billboard that tells us that Shady Sands was the first capital of NCR. Well, if there was a first capital, there has to be a second capital. This is news to us because even during the events of Fallout New Vegas, Shady Sands is referred to as the NCR's capital. Something the politicians back in Shady Sands came up with. Politicians back in Shady Sands are completely detached from the people actually living here. At some point in 2281, while they were actively moving into the Mahave Wasteland, the NCR must have decided to move their capital someplace else. And that corresponds with established Fallout lore because as a nation, the NCR spend much of the West Coast. And that makes it official folks. The final vote count from the Hobbes in. 55% in favor of joining the New California Republic. All five states have now signed on, which means that as of this moment, we are all citizens of the New California Republic. I'm sure that's going to take some getting used to for a lot of people. But here in Shady Sands, people have been waiting for this day for a long time. I think people are hoping the NCR will finally establish peace and prosperity across the whole Southwest. It's quite a historic day. People always hoping for something better. They usually end up with something worse. However, for the purposes of season one, the show essentially equates Shady Sands with NCR. As if the two were one and the same. It depicts the destruction of Shady Sands to correspond with the destruction of the NCR. But destroying one you destroy the other, which is why in the classroom and vault four, they don't just tell the history of Shady Sands, but they also tell the history of the New California Republic, as if they're remembering something that is now gone. Somehow, Moldaver survived the destruction of Shady Sands. Rose didn't. Maximus' family didn't. But Moldaver did. And again, they'll have to explain to us how she did in the second season. And even though she is well over 200 years old, she decided to take it upon herself to bear the banner of the NCR. When Lucian Maximus go to vault four, there's a really weird ritual that takes place. The residents of vault four are comprised from two populations. People who were born there, who descended from the test subjects, who existed in vault four, and people who fled there for safety after the destruction of Shady Sands. It was the unique experiment of vault four that made them predisposed to allow people into their vault, which is why so many survivors of Shady Sands took up residence in vault four. This community, the survivors of Shady Sands, took part in a regular ritual. What's going on? It's a surfaced or a relic tradition, and Gilla ran punctures from my taste. They stripped themselves naked, they covered themselves with the ashes of their loved ones, they coated themselves with human blood chanting that the NCR will return, that Shady Sands will return, and that it's the flame mother who will make it happen. The flame mother, we remember. We bring back to past as we remember. We bring back Shady Sands. We bring back those taken from us by covering ourselves and their act is to bring back Shady Sands blood must spill. It will flame mother, you will be our salvation. The flame mother is none other than Moldaver. What I am here is a whole lot of chat about some woman, name of Moldaver. They call her the flame mother. Why? You have this picture on your wall. That's Moldaver. That's not how I remember her as all. Well, how do you remember her? What the pizza? I suppose it's no wonder why Wastelanders worship Moldaver. Because Moldaver is immortal from their perspective. She's over 200 years old, and she survived the destruction of Shady Sands. They call her the flame mother because she keeps the flame of hope for the NCR alive. Moldaver did what mobsters pretending to be governors never could. She inspired the survivors of Shady Sands, which is why she was able to gather an army together to occupy the Griffin Observatory and to turn that observatory into a headquarters for the New California Republic. Season 1 treats Moldaver and her Ragtag band of troops as the remnants of the New California Republic. As if it didn't exist outside of Shady Sands while at the same time giving us a billboard implying that NCR does exist outside of Shady Sands. That Shady Sands was only the first capital of the NCR. This apparent contradiction gives us some problems. If the NCR does still exist out there, why didn't they ever come back to Shady Sands? Why didn't they try to hunt for survivors? Why didn't they try to save anyone? Why didn't they try to depose a bunch of thugs impersonating the actual government? Why didn't they try to rebuild Shady Sands? I'm not suggesting rebuilding it inside the crater. I'm suggesting rebuilding it outside the crater, you know, like where Philly was built. If the New California Republic exists as an entity outside of the general area of Shady Sands, why would they let Moldaver run around as if she is the leader of the New California Republic? Start building a militia as if that militia was the military of the New California Republic. It could be that it's not a militia. Maybe Moldaver is like a general for the New California Republic and she was the NCR's response by coming back to this area by building her army and by occupying the Griffin Observatory. She was responding on behalf of the NCR against external threats. If true, it would explain some of her behavior. When we first meet Moldaver, she's invading Vault 33. At the time, the Vault Wellers thought these were all raiders, but if we take a look at their behavior, we do see two distinct groups. On one hand, there are people who are clearly raiders. They're addicted to drugs. They're eating everything they see. They thrive on bloodlust. But on the other hand, we do see soldiers who appear to be disciplined, who are working with a goal in mind. When Moldaver gets what she wants, Hank McClain, she spares the lives of the other Vault 33 residents and then blows up the door, trapping half of her troops inside. Well, why would she ever do that? I think she would only ever do that if they weren't her troops. Let's say Moldaver is a general working for the NCR. She needed inside Vault 33 to get Hank McClain so she could restart Cold Fusion. But she doesn't want to risk Vault Tech knowing that she's part of NCR. She doesn't want them to know who they should retaliate against if they ever find an opportunity to. And so she promises a gang of raiders, free run of a Vault, with food and medicine and chems and guns, if they help her inside. Without telling them that she'll betray them in the end and trap them inside. And since they are raiders and not NCR soldiers, if they are captured and interrogated, Vault Tech could never trace this back to the NCR. Any luck? I asked them all sorts of questions, who he is, who he works for, why his colleagues kidnapped over C. McClain, what organizing principle, if any, they operate under? Nothing, huh? But why would a woman working for ostensibly such noble purposes be so murderous and cruel? Well, if she's working for the NCR, then Vault Tech is her enemy. It wasn't the Brotherhood or the Legion who destroyed Shady Sands. It was Vault Tech. And inside Vault 33 was someone directly responsible for that atrocity. Hank McClain. It does seem strange that she would put the lives of the children of Rose McClain in danger using this strategy. But perhaps she had given up on them, after all they were adults now, having been raised by Hank McClain and Vault Tech. And she had no idea what their characters would be. At any rate in her mind, she had a reason for violence. Vault Tech was her enemy, and she was defending her home. And this way, Hank McClain is right, and she's no different than him. The only difference is that Vault Tech actually did attack Shady Sands. But Shady Sands never attacked Vault Tech. But if Moldaver is acting as a sort of general for NCR, executing a mission in Hollywood to reclaim Shady Sands and provide power to the wastes, why did they come with such few forces? During the fight at the Griffin Observatory, there were many Brotherhood casualties, but the NCR was completely obliterated, including Moldaver. If the NCR still exists outside of Shady Sands, I'm surprised their army here would be so weak and do so poorly, especially compared to the Brotherhood of Steel, which, according to the games, should be significantly weaker than the NCR, having lost multiple wars to the NCR up until this point. But then again the Brotherhood of Steel didn't have one of their capitals bombed. Perhaps that's all the explanation we need. So what other evidence do we have that the NCR might exist outside of Shady Sands? Well, not a lot. But there is one thing that I noticed. You know, the music to the Fallout series is really well done. In particular, I think the Brotherhood of Steel theme is haunting and immaculate. But none of the music for the Fallout show carries the familiar theme that we all recognize as associated with Fallout, the theme that we hear when we first log into Fallout 3. The theme we hear upon logging into Fallout 4. This theme is entirely missing from the show, except for in two places. The first time we hear this theme is when Lucy is in the schoolhouse of Vault 4. The background music is sad and melodic, and she's looking at the chalkboard. But then she turns her attention to the NCR flag, and as soon as she touches it. We hear the Fallout theme. The second time we hear it is in the next episode. Wastelanders sympathetic with the NCR are scavenging for lead. We are not told this directly, but we can presume that they used to be part of NCR, because they're using NCR Ranger Armor. When Cooper Howard confronts the dad during this scene, we get a lot of his backstory. That's not really touched ever again in the entire season. We learned that Cooper Howard and the dad had fought each other in the past. I probably still got some of your lead in me somewhere, but today I'm just looking for information. There's still some of his lead in the ghoul somewhere, he says, as if they fought on opposite sides in some long ago battle. The ghoul just learned that Moldaver is the flame mother. He knows that she's fighting on behalf of the NCR, so to track her down to get his questions answered, he goes to someone he knows was formally affiliated with the NCR. A former enemy, perhaps this man fought in a long ago battle on behalf of the NCR, which is where he got his Ranger Armor. It's during this lead farming sequence that we hear the fallout theme again. Only two times in the entire series do we hear the familiar fallout theme. And both times it's when we're looking at something related to the NCR. Why? What's the significance of that? All we can do is speculate. But to help us along here, we can look to something that Todd Howard sent in a recent interview. Look, if you look at the background, the NCR is a wide-ranging sort of organization and group across not just California but other places. So the show focuses on this period of time and this group here, and that's, you know, that's what we could say right now. I don't think you've heard the last of the NCR. Yes, Shady Sans is destroyed, but we haven't seen the last of the NCR. I speculate that the heart of the story they're trying to tell in the Fallout show is tied up with the story of the NCR. I don't know anything about the show that you don't know. I'm just speculating here. But we already know that the NCR is bigger than its portrayed in season one. We already know that there were people willing to fight and die for the NCR in season one. The series has tied this iconic and indispensable Fallout theme to the story of the NCR. I interpret this to mean that not only are we gonna see the NCR again, but that the NCR is going to have an important and essential role to play in the upcoming seasons. But I'd love to hear what you have to say. Were you crushed, disappointed, with the fate of Shady Sans as I kind of was? Do you think that it's an acceptable loss? As long as they wrap up the story of the NCR in a satisfactory way in the future? Or do you think that the NCR can be damned and that the Legion should show up sometime? Let me know your thoughts in the comments section below. I publish new Fallout videos each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss my next one, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already and you still believe you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxford. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a one-of-a-kind plush for sale. It's in stock and ready to ship, but I'm almost sold out. And when it's gone, it's gone. If you want to make sure you get one before it's gone, snag one today. I've also got a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in another way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comments sections of my videos and access to aux emojis that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more Fallout videos. Well...