In our last video, we met Myron, the boy genius who invented jet. We could have optionally taken him on as a companion, but doing so would have alienated Senior Mordino, owner of the Desprato Casino and head of the Mordino crime family. At the moment we are doing tasks for him, so leaving him at the stables we came back to New Reno only to be tasked with a new mission. To intimidate the Corsican brothers, but heading back to Virgin Street to get our car, we discover that it's missing. Hey, where's my car? Cry's the chosen one. We see a number of people walking the streets, including this kid standing outside the Casino. Maybe he saw what happened to the car. The child glares at you silently as you approach. You can barely see his face beneath all that dirt. On the remains of his shirt is scribbled, Cody. Hey, Cody, we can say, you all right? You want something to eat maybe? Cody continues to stare at us. You want a piece of fruit, Cody? Cody grabs the item and runs away. Oh, you're welcome, kid. Don't mention it, we can say. But then the kid just runs off into the cat's paw. Cody is a flighty little kid. He runs away no matter what food we give him, and he also flees at the side of power armor, mutants, or ghouls. We can try to offer him something else. Yethurste wants something to drink, but he continues to stare at us. And we can offer him any number of beverages, including alcohol. Wanna brusky kid? Never too young to start, mom used to say, uh, when she was sober, that is, the chosen one can say. Cody's eyes get wide, and he again runs away. Well, maybe next time. Or instead of offering him food and drink, we can say, where are your parrots? But he continues to stare at us. We can ask him this any number of times, and he just never speaks. He continues to stare at us. Hey, Cody, have you seen my car? And to our surprise, Cody nods. Can you tell me who stole it? We can ask? And Cody glances fearfully at the black man across the street. Who's glaring at the two of us? We can start by saying, oh, really? Well, I'll deal with him later. Can you take me to where the car is right now? Cody nods again, and then starts running off. We can run after him, and he leads us to the chop shop, on the outskirts of the city. But if after doing so, we return to Virgin Street, we find Cody lying dead. Surrounded by a puddle of blood. He has nothing on his inventory, but I think we know who's responsible. Heading to jewels we can confront him. Hey, you smiles uneasily. His cologne slams into us like a wave. Names jewels. What's in it, my friend, huh? Anything? We had a conversation with him when we first arrived at Nureno, but now we can accuse him. Cody is dead, jewels, and I'm betting you're responsible. You're dead. And with that, he races out of town, and we are a hard press to catch him. Or instead of choosing this path, going back to our conversation with Cody, we can instead say, oh, really? Well, you know what's going to happen now, Cody? The bad man who stole Oxford's car, and Oxford's fist will be having a private conversation across the street. We should have guessed this from the very beginning. After all, one of the first things jewel said when we arrived at Nureno was that a car...deam. Then moving over to jewels, jewels have you seen my car? I parked it here a while ago, and now it's gone. Your car, he says, you sure you parked it here? I ain't seen it. We can threaten him, or we can say, you sure you haven't seen it, jewels. Nah, brother, he says I ain't seen it. I'll keep an eye out for it, though. Then he shrugs. Still, Rano's a big blouse. Jewels, we can say, I have this crazy hunch that you might know where my car went. If you don't tell me where it is, I'll use you for target practice. Now talk. But he says, brother, I don't know nothing about your car. I ain't seen what happened to it, and I don't know where it is. He throws a hateful glance at Cody across the street. Really? That sounds like a load of crap to me we can say. And he says, all right, brother, all right. I've seen some guys take the car not long ago, but there were too many of them for me to stop. You know when, shut up and take me where they went now we can say. And he says, okay, okay. And here we can either follow him to the chop shop, or we can save Cody's life by saying, by the way, jewels, if you so much as glance the wrong way at that kid across the street, I'll come back and I'll kill you so many times you'll need multiple wills. Understand? Now lead on. And with that, jewels takes us to the chop shop. If we don't threaten him with bodily violence, the next time we return we find Cody dead. But if we did threaten him, then when we next return we find Cody, safe and sound. Another way to find the location of the car is to bypass these conversations entirely, and instead walk into the parking lot. And if our perception is high enough, as we pass closer to where the car was parked, we notice faint skid marks leading off to the north. We can ignore them, or we can follow the tracks. No matter how we get here, we arrive at the chop shop. We stand at a pep gas refueling station. Our Pip-Wide tells us that this looks like an old electrical pre-war charging station. A graveyard of stripped cars surrounds the building. We see two buildings to the north of us. Heading into the first one, we find a bunch of empty shelves, can't find anything on any of these. And directly below this we find two bathrooms, but both are empty. As is the gated-off storage area with a wagon and a bunch of barrels and spare tires. So moving north, we can open a door into a garage where we find our highway man. But it's surrounded by a bunch of goons. The game describes each of these men as a greased-covered mechanic. If our chosen one is a woman with high charisma, they're all pretty flirtatious. Check your oil. You're looking for some hot love? Tearays in the back. So don't bother going there. Damn, all them curves and me with no brakes. Oh hell, I look like crap. Then you show up. Don't mind the grease, miss. But with a male chosen one, their flavor dialogue is a bit more automotive. Well, some of it. Tearays slept with my sister and my mother and my dog. Grease is the word that I heard. Dum-dum-dum. Fast, the highway man goes from zero to 60 in less than a second. The highway man's got the power. 800 plus horsepower. In fact, the highway man's got a full analog system. 800 plus horsepower. Zero to 60 in less than a second. Cool, learning a bit about pre-war, Chrysler's highway man lore. But it sounds like the leader of this operation is T-Ray. The man in the orange shirt in the room just above us. The game describes him as a good looking black man. Er, no wait. You see T-Ray. Okay. Who are you, he says? What are you doing here? We find a number of options here. We'll start by saying, you're the one who stole my car, asshole. And he says, your car. Man, you don't even know what the hell you're talking about. That highway man was scrap. Left lying around. And guess what? Now it's ours. Of course, you got an issue with that. We could settle it here and now. Yeah, I got an issue with it, we can say, let's go chop shop boy. And with that, he and some of the other goons in the chop shop turn hostile. But many others of them flee. This is not a very difficult fight. And after killing T-Ray, we can simply walk up to the highway man and drive it away. But we miss out on a number of great opportunities this way. So instead, we can try some of the other options. That car you have in the garage belongs to me, we can say. In which case he again claims to own it. But instead of challenging him to a fight, we can say, no, that's cool. You can have the damn highway man. Peace are crap anyway. Uses too much electricity. Smells like gecko inside. Trunks too small. Be perfect for you though. See ya. And he stops us. Whoa, hold up there. Peace of crap? Smells like gecko? Man, what kind of jet you've been taking. This is a highway man. Not only does it run, but after I fix it up, it's gonna perl like a woman beneath me. What do you mean by fix it up? We can say. And he says, jazz up the engine, clean out the interior, put a brass rope around the license plate, and kick some of that crap out of the trunk. Make some room. When we're done, it'll be worth some serious chips to Mr. Bishop. Now Mr. Bishop is another crime boss here in New Reno. We haven't met him yet, but he is the guy we're supposed to deliver the suitcase too that we got from Vault City. Now if we've already met Mr. Bishop, then we can honestly tell him that we are one of Bishop's lieutenants, in which case he's supposed to hand over the car so as not to get in trouble. But if we haven't met Mr. Bishop yet, we have to pass a high intelligence, charisma, and speech check to get him to believe us when we say, I'm one of Bishop's lieutenants. I'm here for his car. He studies us and frowns. Yeah, sure you are. I know all of Bishop's lieutenants, and you ain't one of them. He nods at the door. Get out of here before I lose my temper. But we can say, I am one of Bishop's lieutenants. Now are we gonna deal or what? And if we fail the speech check, he sneers. Yeah, we're gonna deal all right. Better hope you ain't got no family who's gonna miss you. And then he attacks. Now I came to tea right here with a throwaway character who had 10 intelligence, 10 charisma, and well over 100 speech, and I still couldn't pass the check. I even came back with a character who had completed all of Mr. Bishop's quests, and even one who had become a made man for Mr. Bishop. And I still couldn't get this option to work right. So I'm not sure what I did wrong. But presumably this is one way we're supposed to be able to get the car back. Alternatively, we can say, you're trying to sell her to Bishop? I can meet Bishop's offer and then raise it some. And he says, you're gonna match Bishop's offer? That's a lot of scrylaman, a lot of chips. Plus, he's one of the top men in Reno, you know? I get him this machine. There's fringe benefits. We then have to pass a barter check. Does 500 chips change your mind? And if we fail, he says, man, that amount couldn't even afford to change my clothes. Much less change my mind. You must think cars are cheap. How about 750 we can say? And he doesn't go for it. So we'll offer him a thousand chips. And he says, all right then, it's a done deal. He scans the money quickly and pockets it. The highway man's all yours. No matter how we get the car from TJ, once we do, he says, the car ain't got no battery juice, of course. And it ain't got none of the special amenities I was gonna add. We can offer him 300 chips for the upgrades. And he shakes his head. Now that ain't gonna cut it. 500 or nothing. If we accept the deal, he says done. And he takes the money. It's all taken care of. And look, you ever need batteries? Come talk to me. I'll hook you up. Sounds good we can say. Can I see what you have in stock now? And despite saying that he has a bunch of batteries in stock, all we find is a shotgun, a vanity mirror, some tools, ammo, and Jimmy hats. Now I read that what he meant by having batteries in stock was that if we come back two weeks later, he'll give us some microfusion cells. But I tried this on a number of different characters that all made different decisions in Nureno. And all I ever got him to say was, who are you? What do you want? So I don't know if this takes place after the primary plot of the game, or if my game is just bugged. Now, TJ offers us a very different set of choices if we play a female chosen one with high charisma. When we first talked to him, he says, damn, look what just walked in. Looks like them upper body workouts is finally paying off. What can I do for you, sweet thing? Then when haggling for a price, we find an option to say, how about a night with me, T-Ray? You ain't never gonna have anything better. And his eyes slide up and down our body. I don't know if you're worth that woman. This is a highway man we're talking about. Oh, I'm worth all that. And more, we can say. And he says, curse me for a fool. It's a done deal then. I get some play time, then you can drive that highway man out of here. Let's get to it then. You want to go here? Well, and he looks us up and down. A man's got to do what a man's got to do. Let's get down to bitterness. Let's get down to business, we can say. The screen goes dark. And T-Ray wipes the sweat off of his body. Duck on woman. All right then. The highway man's all yours, but it ain't got none of them special amenities I was gonna add. Then coming back to him, we can ask him if he can upgrade the highway man. And when we begin to barter, we find an option to say, how about some more sweet love? And he says, damn woman, I just give you sweet love five minutes ago. You trying to kill me? Come on, T-Ray, I need a fixing. And only your sweet love is gonna do it. He looks us up and down again and says, a man's got to do what a man's got to do. Let's get down to bitterness. And this time, the chosen one can get down to bitterness. Now afterwards, the Pip Boy tells us that we got the upgrade for the highway man. But for some reason, we can repeat this dialogue option with T-Ray over and over and over again. It's T-Ray's lucky day. We can sleep with him nine times until... He explodes. We really did kill him. Strangely enough, my game went black for the explosion animation, but we find his body lying here. And on his body, we find his store inventory. If we chose to go about getting our car back by buying it from him, or if we just want to get back the money we spent on the upgrade, we can always try to pick his pocket. And we find the money on his inventory. Now the chop shop has some decent loot, if we're willing to steal. Most of these containers are far enough away from the people here that we can pick the locks and steal without getting caught. Though a few of the tables to the west may be a bit trickier. In T-Ray's office, we find some shotgun shells, booze, and a combat knife in his locked desk. Then in a locker, in the southeastern corner of his office, we find a lock picking tool kit. His workbench has a radio, a tool, and some junk. Heading out of his office, we find another tool on the first table, a spanner on the second table, a leather jacket, knife, and some money in the second lower locker, and some booze and jimmy hats in the fourth lower locker. The table in the southwest corner has some junk, the lower table against the wall to his office has a crowbar, and the upper table has a sledgehammer. Both of the upper workbenches have some junk. Finally, the far right locker, against the southern wall to T-Ray's office, has a crowbar, and the far left locker against the southern wall has a combat knife some beer and some money. When done, we can finally take our highway man back. The upgrade we paid for was increased trunk space. We can now carry more items. If we come back later after completing the primary plot in the game, T-Ray can install Grave plates as an upgrade that reduce fuel consumption. But of course, we'll have to wait to do that at another time. Now that we've got our car back, we can finally head back to New Reno to check in on the Corsican brothers, and we'll tackle that in my next episode. I publish many Fallout videos each and every week, so if you don't want to miss my next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. No dice. Celebrate your luck or lack thereof with this shirt about everyone's favorite perfectly preserved pie. This design comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's, and children's sizes, and in a wider ray of colors. You can find it on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to myself in the description below or you can click there. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.