Last week I was invited by Prime Video to attend an event in Austin, Texas where we got to explore a mock-up of the Scrap City Philly from the upcoming Fallout TV show. I published a short going over some of the highlights, but there's a great deal that I couldn't cover. Here's the full experience. Philly first opened up to us at night. We entered through the wreckage of an airplane fuselage, and were greeted by a giant flaming Fallout logo. There was a billboard directly above the town, promoting the upcoming show and pointing to the Scrap Town Philly. It was a bustling event. There were dozens of people there. Journalists, developers, YouTubers, influencers, and celebrities. In the middle of the town was a restaurant, similar to Takahashi's noodle shop in the middle of Diamond City. Here, they had clips from the TV show playing on old televisions, a replica of a Mr. Handy bartender, and they were serving drinks, including the Jones Soda Nukakola Victory. There were tables scattered around Philly, and they were decorated with a lantern, which looked like the railroad lantern. I thought that was a nice touch. Some of the cast and crew were there as well. We got to talk to and take photos with Aaron Moton, who plays Maximus, a brotherhood of Steel Squire, and Walton Goggins, who plays the ghoul. Not Howard was there. I briefly got to talk to him, and Elon Musk showed up, for some reason. But the highlight of the night for me were all of the actors they hired to roleplay residents of Philly. They wouldn't talk to you out of character, which was a lot of fun. There was a barber slash dentist who tried to buy my teeth. I might be interested in the haircut. The haircut? Yeah. Well, we could do that. My specialty is dental extract. We could do the haircut since the time I was a kid. I say sedental extract. Absolutely. What about other surgery? I might need like an additional lamp. An additional lamp? Oh, lamp. Oh, sorry. I can't help you there. And I'll be third lamps. A little bit about facial reconstruction. Just dental. Just dental. I got it. Well, I think we got a great collection. You see that? I think we got a great collection. I think we got a great collection. I think we got a great collection. I think we got a great collection. I think we got a great collection. I think we got a great collection. You see that? Oh, my God. You did it. We have this thing. Oh, this thing. Oh, yeah. You did that. What do you do for a sanitary clean-up? Oh, we got the barber. Is that barber song? Yeah. I think it's barber song. Why was that? It's the teeth or something. You got it right. You got it right. You got it right. You got it right. You got it right. You got it right. You got it right. Everything. I'm impressed. I'm impressed. I'm impressed. I'm impressed. I'll tell you what. If I ever get a game in my teeth, it was a man I'm going to see. Then there was Ma Jun's Sundries, a little general store. This, I think, is the same general store we see in the trailer for the phone on TV show. But Ma wasn't there tonight. It was somebody else. Walking inside, we find a bunch of pre-war stuff, including a variety of televisions and computers, broken electronics, and all sorts of goodies. The lady at the register seemed to be confused by my recording device. I don't know what you're dealing. You're working here to buy some, not here. What is this? I'm just taking an inch and 12. I want to know what workings in the way it's going. This is what is that? I will then go promote your weird house. What is this? This is like a special microphone for recording what I see. That's the quality. I found it off of a robot wreckage. It's a Christmas. It's only going to help you with the sales. I will be back with many more customers. Because to your humanity, Lats. My attempted humor fell flat, sadly. But she had a number of wonderful items on display behind a glass cabinet. We'll get a better look at them later. There was a Brahman Lassoing station, and as I was recording it, the mayor of Philly stopped by to make sure he could secure my vote. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. I'm here to mayor. mayor. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor, we're going to take an action. We're going to take an action. We're going to take an action. We're going to take an action. Are going to take an action. Are going to take an action. Are going to take an action. Are going to take an action. Are going to take an action. Are going to take an action. Are going to take an action. I've got him a couple of times. I can see you. He's got something that he does. Always an option. So stick around. I'll be happy to have you be coming to this. And I'll give you a vote for me. Well, good to meet you, man. He and many of the other actors were handing out bottle caps. I thought they were just collectibles, but they actually have some significance, which we'll talk about in a little bit. They played the same trailer that I published on my channel a few days ago, and then they showed us the first seven minutes of the first episode of the show. All it did is amp me up for the show. I got so excited. There was a peddler walking around with a bunch of cups. She was trying to con people out of money. She cheats. I'm not going to give my way to Canada. You can look at it. You're doing another day. Yeah, it's a nice meeting with you. I'm going to be your eye later. Okay, okay. Okay, okay. Let's stop there. Let's stop there. Oh, I did not say that. I said this one. Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! There was an arms dealer with a real-life junk jet. It wasn't operational that night, but I did get a chance to fire it, which we'll talk about later. It was also a full suit of T60 power armor being guarded by a squire. Apologies for the quality of this footage. It was night, and I was shooting this all on my phone. Oh, I'm really impressed. I'm sorry. There I said the guards. Okay, this will be night. I'm sorry, but my night will be back soon. All right, well, I won't keep you there. I'm just going to take all of this thing. That's how it'd be. We drank and made Mary. I had so much fun with all of the other Fallout YouTubers and TikTokers and influencers that I met there. Awesome memories were made. The next morning, we were invited back. You see, they were getting ready to open up Philly to the public, but they wanted to give us an opportunity to explore the full experience before they opened it up. There was already a line outside when we arrived. In the daytime, it was a bit less crowded, which was nice, but it didn't stay that way for long. So I tried to make good use of the time I had. I loved the signage, the posters, and all of the props that we found. I found out later that many of the props that were used to decorate Philly were actually used in the show. In the daytime, there was a stand handing out Fallout-themed necrachifs, worst carfs. It came in orange, blue, and yellow. I chose a yellow one. There was a shady salesman selling contraband items beneath his trench coat. During the daytime, I got a better look at some of the goods on display in Mom's shop. Many of these items we were going to be able to buy once they're available. Some of them are on pre-order. Some are already sold out. We see a version of the Pip Boy that's used in the show. The Pip Boy in the show is a new Pip Boy. It's not the same as any of the other Pip Boy's from the games that we've experienced. It's much more industrial. There was a model Verdeburg and a bunch of models from McFarlane Toys. But the same lady was working behind the counter, and I tried to take credit for bringing in all these people. Well, Mom, I told you I'd bring more people. Look at it, see how sad I am. I'm not here today. Oh, okay, I'm late. I'm here last night. You're late. You didn't. She was mom. I know. My tone is Maggie. Maggie is not here. Yeah. So we're running the shop for her. Oh, that's nice of you. Yeah. We do have very nice people. You seem very, last night you didn't want me reporting. I know, I know. But you do seem nice. So there's a bunch of pre-walled items out in Philly, and I'm looking for them. We're always in the market. Pre-war items. Pre-war items. You find them? You bring them back to me, and I'll give you bottle caps. All right. So that's the guy to me. I'll keep an eye out. I didn't even found any, uh, she found any artifacts. Not yet. I didn't realize I was looking for them. I'm going to go. Yes. They're all over Philly. I'm going to go. Okay. I'll keep an eye out. Perfect. She told me that there's a scavenger hunt going on. We had to find pre-war artifacts, scattered all over Philly. Wow. I'll fall out, player, and me immediately took to the scent. In a corner of Philly, I found a pre-war toaster. This seemed to catch the attention of somebody else, but he didn't grab it. So I did. With Toaster in hand feeling very proud of myself, I showed it off to Mr. and Mrs. Fallout. I found a toaster. Yeah. Awesome. I don't know if I'm supposed to. She said she's hunting for pre-war. Yeah, toaster. I found it. I thought I'm going to go turn it in and see if I get credit for it. I don't get to keep it. No. With Toaster in hand, I proudly walked into Ma's shop to present the goods. Right. Don't find any of the lot for me. Does this count as a pre-war item? Unfortunately not. You have a list of items on your device. This is a pre-sup toaster. It's actually a pre-sup toaster. Okay. Well, I guess it's not a... One of those shiny blue suits should have shown. These, these, where we're looking, are we? I got the wrong three-war item. All right. I'll go back and check. Do you have a specific list on that fancy little device that you have? All right. If you check your device, you'll find it. I'll check it out. Thank you very much. Okay. And so here's the thing. Apparently this was designed for the public. And when they brought us in, they didn't really explain to us the rules of the scavenger hunt. No one in a vault suit told me what was going on. But apparently, when we walked in, we got access to a website that they created just for this event. On the website was a list of pre-war items that we had defined. And when we found them, we didn't pick them up. Now we were supposed to scan a QR code that was sitting next to it. Sure enough, as I began walking around, I found these QR codes. Next to an old radio. Next to a Vault-Tec bubble hat. I found a really cool safe. It didn't really look like any of the safes from the game, but still it's really cool. And next to it was an old model car with a QR code. There was even a garden gnome with a QR code. There were 11 items in all. And I'm happy to say that I found them all. But sadly, the payoff isn't that exciting. After going back to Ma and showing her that I found all the items, she simply entered me in a raffle. And remember those bottle caps that I said they were handing out earlier? We could have given them to her to get more entries into the raffle. I don't think I won because I never heard back. Someone told me that the prize was a Fallout-themed Xbox, but I don't really know. Still, I'm just glad that I found all the items. Getting a look at the restaurant in the daytime revealed even more details. There was Rad Scorpion Meat. Blowed Fly Meat. Rad Roach Meat. Just lying out. They had a little crate of various other foodstuffs, including Eggwanna on a stack. Which, if you know what it really is, is disturbing. All of this looked really gross. Ugh, especially those greenish meat blobs at the bottom. Ooh. Someone in Philly was a home star runner fan. I found a little truck door the Bernanator on a stop sign. With consummate vies. And in the morning, the arms dealer was active. We could line up to fire the junk jet. It was a popular attraction that was a long line. Eventually, I got in the line. I had to give my phone to somebody to record me shooting it. And she decided to take a selfie with my phone. Hey, look at that. That shirt it had something. Thank you very much. Thank one of these for your troubles. Thank you. It hit more than something and hit the target. That's right, I got good in. I've been practicing. The actress from the show came by again to walk around and talk with us. Aaron was working on Lasso and Abrahmon. I mean, I can't say I would have done any better. I think they were filming a behind the scenes promotional thing. Because Walton and Aaron went on a tour of every little destination in Philly. And they had a camera crew following them. Then I found a ghoul in a cage. It's a ghoul in a cage. Are you a peril? You look terrible. What happens if I get to the stage? Yeah, you're a pericom thing. I'm going to stand back a little bit. All right, I had to make you a... Good to meet you, ghoul. Apparently, he was the pet of this raider guy who was walking around the town. There were a couple of raiders and they tried to steal your bottle caps from you. So yeah, I tried to avoid them. After we got our fill of Philly, we left and they opened it up to the public. I hope that lots of people got to explore the town just like I did. It was so cool saying a universe that I loved being translated into the real world. And so many people just walk around and enjoying it. So there you go, that's my tour of Philly. Many thanks to Prime Video for inviting me down. I still have a bit more to say about my trip. Be sure to subscribe and stay tuned for more.