In our last episode, we got sidetracked on the way to Vault City by stumbling upon the town of Modok. There we solved many of the town's problems, picked up a wife or a husband optionally, and learned about another location that might have a geck. Remember we are going to Vault City because Vic told us that the person who gave him the canteen was from Vault City. But Sheriff Joe at Modok told us that he thought the people of the town called Gecko might know where we can find a geck, but which one do we choose? Well for now let's head towards Vault City. It's closer than Gecko, and it was our original destination. We arrive in the dead of night. We find guards posted outside, but they don't seem terribly concerned with our presence. Heading inside we can begin to explore. The first building by the gate is the greeting office, but inside we find no one to greet us. There's a monitor with nothing interesting on it, a locked locker with a first aid kit inside, and next to this is a locked desk with a Stimpak and $50 inside. To the right of the monitor is another locker inside we find a Geiger counter, and that's it for the greeting office. I figured that maybe the person who was supposed to greet us was sleeping, so I waited until morning, but no one ever showed up. Moving left, we find a big caged off area, a pen. Inside we find people wandering around. One man says talk to Wallace if you're looking to get into the city. The pen is guarded by armed guards. If we try to activate the gate they tell us to steer clear. Our presence is bothering the locals. As we walk around they call us desert trash. We don't need your kind around here they shout. Just north of the jail we see a shack. There's a man inside. He says he has no idea where all the Brahman craft keeps coming from. Hello stranger, I'm Ed. The local Brahman dealer. Can I help you with something? Ed, this is the guy. The guy Vick said he got the Vault 13 flask from. We can say my friend Vick here says he bought a water flask from you. Ed says oh yeah yeah I remember. It's been a long time Vick. A water flask huh what about it? We can remind him you sold one to Vick. Remember? But he says in order to jog his memory we have to show it to him. So coming back with one in our inventory we can ask him where the flask came from. But he says you know I can't quite recall. I had a bunch of them for a long time. I think I picked him up during one of my Brahman drives. I didn't need to much when I settled down. Oh great he doesn't remember. We can ask him if he can tell us more about the Brahman drives. And he says that when he was a lot younger he used to drive Brahman through the big circle. Broken Hills, New Reno, Redding, The Den, and Modok. And then come back here. He says that it just got too dangerous after a while so he settled down. He marks all of those locations on our map and we can ask him if he remembers at which of those locations he found the water flask. But he doesn't remember. The Brahman drives were a long time ago. When he asks us why we are curious we can say that we're trying to find out where the vault is that the water flask came from. And he says well hell if it's a vault you're looking for then there's one right inside the walls of Vault City. It's not Vault 13 but it is a vault. It may not be the one that we are looking for but the vault's central computer might know where it is. They have damn near everything listed on the computers there. All right so our water flask lead has gone cold but we've got a new lead now. The computers inside the vault here at Vault City. That seems promising. I think we'll stick around for a while. We can ask Ed here about the place. He says it's okay if you can deal with the citizens. He doesn't agree with some of their views but he makes a pretty good living here. His occupation is straightforward. He sells Brahman to people who need them. Helps him pay the rent on this place and that's as far as Ed can help us. So moving right we see a tent on the other side of the street inside there's a man lying flat on his back. Cough cough he says. We can inspect his belongings here but everything is empty. Our Pip Boy says that his name is Puking Charlie. He looks terribly sick but we're not sure what's wrong. We can use our doctor skill on him repeatedly until we discover that the man is suffering from radiation poisoning. Our skills as a doctor can't help him. He needs medication. We earn a hundred experience for discovering it but in order to cure him we need some radoway. If we have radoway already or once we get it we can use it on him to cure his radiation sickness. If we do he goes Errk. Oh, the cough cough. What happened? I feel tons better. Thanks stranger. I appreciate your help. I couldn't afford the auto dock. Wish I could reward you but I ain't even got two caps to rub together. That'll be the last time I drink the damned water in this town that's for sure. Surprised I still ain't glow in. Damn radoway gives me the runs. So this poor old guy Puking Charlie got sick by drinking the town's water. Is it that badly irradiated? Move and write we see a young boy standing outside this shack. I lost my friend while playing in the courtyard. His name is Mr. Nixon. Mr. Nixon has a blue shirt and a big nose. He's really really short. Then he sniffs. Okay, guess we have to keep our eyes out for Mr. Nixon. Then in a nearby tent we hear a woman say what am I going to do? What do you want? She says we can say are you okay? You look upset and then she gives us a sad tale. It's her husband Joshua you see. He comes to some trouble at the bar. He accidentally struck a vault city citizen and was arrested. He didn't mean to but he'd been drinking and if we say that he was drunk on attack someone so he should be arrested she retorts but it was an accident. He didn't mean to do it. We can be unsympathetic with her. In which case she doesn't give us the quest. Where we can say where is he now? And she tells us that he's inside the city. In the servant allocation center they say that he can work off his prison sentence as a servant but that would take years. When we ask her what can be done about this situation she says that she doesn't have much money left. The money she does have she has to use to pay the guards for protection. Without the money she'll have to leave. The only other option if she wants to stay with Joshua is she and her son can become servants too and we say hey that sounds like a solution. They treat servants pretty well in vault city don't they? But she says I don't want my son to be raised as a slave. We came to vault city because we heard it was a free city but we get here and there's all these laws and payments to the guards and it's nothing like we were told. We can offer to help. We can say I'll see what I can do all right maybe I can talk with someone at the allocation center and she says that the man in charge is barkus officer barkus. She can't even get inside the city to see Joshua she doesn't even know if he's all right. There is another way to solve her problem. When she says that she doesn't have much money we can say I could help you but it's gonna cost you and she says but I don't have much money and but we can interrupt I wasn't talking about money we can say and she says what do you mean oh no I I couldn't I mean I do I want your husband for your don't you your husband never has to know we can say and she says if you promise to free my husband I very well close the tent flap I think my son is still playing outside so we want to be disturbed with that the screen fades to black and when we return she says please rescue Joshua he's inside the city in the servant allocation center no matter how we choose to accept this quest we now have to go deep into the city to find her husband and we got to find mr. Nixon wherever he is heading north of the tent and passing by her son we can head towards the bar it's a much larger structure the bar patrons don't say much they all recycle the same dialogue they continue to talk about the drought but the man behind the counter is a chatty sort of fellow well now I ain't seen you around before stranger names Cassidy I run the place what can I do for you we can say that we're looking for a vault and he says vault the only vault I know of is the one inside the city big friggin hole you can't miss it trust me we can ask him about his business he sells beer and whiskey nothing special when we ask him if he knows about anything interesting going on he says interesting friend vault city ain't an interesting place unless the guards get bored then you better take cover why you ask him are you looking for something in this sinkhole it can't be that bad we can say and he says oh really well hell then I must be mistaken considering you're the authority and all guess you must have been here napping during the raid last week we can say raid what raid and he says oh yeah beautiful side it was a guard patrol came in here looking for illegal substances quote unquote they busted down my door busted up my stock and that busted up a few of my customers too what happened after that Cassidy we can say and he says after they hauled away this one guy Joshua for resisting arrests they find my ass for finding get this real whiskey on the premises never mind that I got a permit from stark three months before the bastards whoa no kidding we can say and he says wait it gets better now I'm in debt to the guards for the fine and I had to buy a new case of alcohol from a merchant at triple my standard rate I'm expecting the guards to come knocking again soon just to bust my chops we can say man that's awful but what's it like here most of the time and Cassidy says even the good days aren't worth a damn the citizens don't drink much some stuck here porn drinks for merchants the next cheap son of a gun who haggles for a drink is gonna be wearing his ass as a hat why are you here if you hate it so much we can ask and he says I have a bad heart I need cardio booster shots to keep it beating the city's the only place to get real medical care so I thought I'd settle here and try to make a living you sound pretty fed up with this place we can say and he says makes me want a close-up shop and let this city rot screw them all well then why don't you leave Cassidy and he says going into the wastes by myself ha I'm sick of this place but I ain't stupid but then we can say hey you know I'm heading out that way again soon why don't you come along huh you serious he says and we can say sure why the hell not you look like you know how to take care of yourself in a fight and he says all right count me in we can say let's hit it and that Cassidy joins us as a new permanent companion Cassidy is one of the best companions in fall out too and yes he is related to that Cassidy he is the father of Rose of Sharon Cassidy from fall out New Vegas dad ran a bar a long time ago and it was a labor of love mom said didn't sound like it made her happy still I'm guessing I got some of dad's love of whiskey in me because the burn suits me fine if you want to learn exactly what his relationship was like with his daughter you can watch my character profile video on Cass by clicking here long story short they didn't know each other very well Cassidy is a down to earth kind of guy he's no goody two shoes but if you want him to stick around just don't be too evil he has a heart condition so you can't give him any drugs except for basic healing things like stem packs when you talk with him he says that he's great with spears and shotguns but he's pretty handy with most small guns I gave him shotguns towards the beginning of my gameplay and kept him stock with shells but he's also deadly with a sniper rifle keeping him at medium range with a rifle is a great way to use the guy at end game when he's fully leveled up he has the highest small guns and energy weapon skill of any of our other possible companions so later in the game giving him an energy pistol or rifle will make him devastating now that Cassidy's a companion we can loot his place we find a desk in his bedroom and it's locked but after picking it inside we find some shotgun shells and some whiskey and Cass doesn't seem to mind that we take it of course I put all this in his inventory anyway so I suppose that's why and in his bookshelf we find a copy of guns and bullets and cats palm magazine oh Cassidy some light bedside reading perhaps heading outside we find something lying on the ground right next to his shack it's hard to see we just see a yellow outline but our pitboy tells us that it's a mr. Nixon doll well what do you know we found mr. Nixon inspecting it in our inventory oh that's mr. Nixon you see a small doll with a big red nose for some reason you don't trust this seemingly innocent child's toy really Nixon became a child's toy in the fallen universe okay well with the doll in hand we can return it to the small boy whose mother lives in the tent she's the one trying to find her husband Joshua I lost mr. Nixon and I don't know where I left him he says and we can say I have mr. Nixon right here but you know what I think mr. Nixon should be punished for going off on his own some ritual dismemberment maybe an order so first I'm gonna pull off his then and the boy says no no don't stop it stop whoopsie looks like Nixon was a little more fragile than I thought too bad kid and as we walk away the kid says mr. Nixon will come back from the grave and kill you mr. Nixon will haunt you for the rest of your days and I mean it oh poor kid we destroyed his mr. Nixon incidentally this exchange was recreated in fallen of Vegas if you go to the fort we find a little girl slave minding the Brahman who lost her toy teddy bear we can go through the same thing with her I covered it in a video when I did the full story of Caesar's Legion which you can watch here or we could be a decent human being and just say hey is this him he was looking for you too and give the mr. Nixon doll to the poor boy you found him he says you found mr. Nixon sure I did kid he didn't go far now keep an eye on him from now on okay and with that the boy is reunited with his mr. Nixon thanks for finding mr. Nixon he says thanks to all right I'm feeling the warm fuzzies but if we stick around we can observe the child have a conversation with mr. Nixon would you like some team mr. Nixon and the toy says well yes I would like one thank you Curtis and this way we'll learn the boy's name is Curtis here you go drink up thank you Curtis thank you mr. Nixon says the young boy and then he says do you want to go dig up daddy's wrench no mr. Nixon daddy would be mad that we buried it but it's buried under those rocks behind the bar we could go get it right now no daddy will be mad it's best to lie just like you told me mr. Nixon okay so from this exchange we learn that young Curtis here buried his father Joshua's wrench under some rocks by the bar let's see if we can find it heading north we can go all the way around the bar but we don't see much the we do see a pile of rocks just to the east of the bar inspecting it the chosen one says hey I found a wrench buried under these rocks all right so we've got a wrench an expensive tool good for resale or good is a makeshift weapon but instead of selling it we'll save it for later who knows it may come in handy moving on we can head north of Cassidy's bar here we find a tent and a man standing outside of it don't think I've seen you around before stranger the name Smith help you with something when we ask him to tell us about vault city he says well what you see here ain't really vault city you're actually standing in the city's courtyard oh so we haven't actually entered town yet okay why aren't you in the city we can ask and he says me and the family ain't the kind of people they let in there so we live here under their protection there from the wasteland you see wastelanders like ourselves we wastelanders could never become vault city citizens so the best he and we could ever get from them is protection we have to pay for the vault city guards keep them safe from the outside but that safety costs him and his wife quite a bit and without a plow while making ends meet is really difficult when we ask him if we can help him get a plow he says you'd help people like us we can't offer much but we sure would appreciate it when we ask him where we can find one he says there's a plow over near the guns and ammo store Harry might be selling it if we ask for payment to do this favor for him he says that he only has about a hundred and fifty dollars saved but if he gives that to us to get the plow he won't be able to make his next protection payment to the guards unless he gets a plow by next week moving west of here we find the clinic and inside we find the doctor he can heal us up sadly we can't barter with him and he tells us that there are actually two doctors in the shack himself and the old doctor in the back when we ask him old doctor what do you mean by that he says yeah the auto dock in the back room there it's a loner from the city it can be a little honorary sometimes but mostly it does the job mostly heading into the back room with the auto dock we find a desk locked with a difficult lock if we pick it we find some radics some antidote some money in a stem pack then inspecting the machine we see an ancient looking auto dock it's clicking and worrying unhealthily and a great deal of heat is emanating from it so the auto dock is busted we can try to use our repair skill to repair the auto dock or if thick as a companion he can try to repair it for us and after many failed attempts we're finally successful the damage wasn't as bad as it seemed some interior cables needed to be replaced and the diagnostic board cleaned no problem we gain 100 experience points but aside from the experience we don't get any other reward however this encounter goes differently if your character has low intelligence and high luck after repairing the auto dock when we talk with the clinic doctor to use the auto dock he'll ask us if we want to get patched up to say yes our low intelligence character can say patch he goes all right well from the looks of it it's gonna cost 225 bucks you got the cash then you're good to go our low intelligence character can say patch patch take money fix leaks let's get to it then says the doctor I'll just took you up to the old auto dock here slip your arms into the slots there then I'll tighten the braces and secure the clamps when done he says all right knew the old doctor wouldn't let you down but the chosen one fails to understand what just happened me want to ride again again says the chosen one well now that might not be the safest thing for your friends as the doctor seems like you already took a few trips in the old doctor from the way you talk but if you want to and we ride again only this trip we gain plus two to our maximum HP the doctor says uh how do you feel any better any worse me feel like maxed up points increased so me fine for now bye and if we choose that option we can walk away with our new permanent health buff or we can say again again again again and the doctor says oh well okay but I warned you last time that it might not be safe if we continue the doctor says uh oh looks like the old doctor took a pound of flesh this time and we lose minus two to our maximum HP we can respond by say errrk me hurt inside me never want to ride in bad thing again so what happens here is we get a unique perk depending on the stats of our low intelligence character if we have less than four intelligence and at least nine luck then after riding the auto dock we gain plus two to maximum HP if however we have ten in luck and less than four intelligence we get plus four to our maximum HP but then of course as you just saw if we choose to ride again we lose either of the perks that we got so to keep them we got to walk away after our first ride this auto dock is also what we use to remove our imitated toe if you recall in my episode on the town of Klamath there we found the toxic caves and the toxic caves were so toxic that if we walked around without rubber boots on our feet began to tingle after a few months of in-game time we sprout a sixth toe it's not that big of a deal but it does have some in-game ramifications which we'll talk about later but we can use this auto dock to remove the sixth toe if we do the mutated toe is added as a new inventory item you see your sixth toe it's a small mutated part of yourself for some reason you feel a terrible sense of loss as you look at the tiny amputated toe and it weighs an entire one pound wow that is one heavy toe and it's an aid item we can eat it if we do we become poisoned it removes three to our maximum HP and adds two to our current poison level and it takes seven days for our HP to recover moving out of the clinic we see a well but there's no way we can interact with it and so moving west from here we can explore the shack just north of Ed's Brahman farm this is happy Harry's weapon and ammo store having inside we find happy Harry behind the counter well hello there what can I do for you he says this is the guy mr. Smith told us that we could get a plow from we can mention this to him are you still selling that plow out there and he says yes I am I'll let it go say for eight hundred dollars we can say forget it the Smiths can starve or we can try to barter with him I'll give you a six hundred dollars we can say but he says sorry it's gonna cost you eight hundred so unless we can pass that barter check we got to fork out eight hundred bucks it's yours says happy Harry he pockets the money and he says are you just gonna take it or do you need to deliver it somewhere we'll have him drop it off at the Smiths with the item secure and we can head back to mr. Smith to check in with him thank you kindly his says here's a little something my pug gave me before he left this world with the guards protecting us we don't need it but you might be able to make some use of it with that we are two hundred and fifty experience and mr. Smith gives us a 44 caliber desert eagle however if we insisted upon a reward before accepting this quest he only gives us the money he doesn't give us the desert eagle back to happy harries whenever had a chance to inspect his shop inventory he's got a pretty decent selection grenades boos flares explosives ammunition for a range of handguns and a selection of small arms low to mid-game armor and even some energy weapon ammunition so a great little merchant for this stage in the game leaving the shop I discovered a fun conversation with Cassidy while I was asking him about the types of weapons he liked to use he can use shotguns and rifles and he says between you and me I can also use a spear pretty good me and my buddies used to hunt rat scorpions with spears way back and the fact that I'm alive and they ain't might tell you something we know his apprehension his cautiousness when telling us that he can use a spear and we can say hey there's nothing wrong with using a spear and he explains by saying well I don't want people to mistake me for old bone nose over there he's talking about sulic I never see no travel to something as dumb as jamma bone in his nose the chosen one can say did you know that I'm a tribal and Cassidy says oh don't be planned with all Cassidy now you wait no tribal and we can say uh yeah yeah I am and he says oh well damn it all you can have my apology right here and now I didn't mean no offense we can say don't worry about it and he says well not before you go oh I got a question for you what are we doing out here we seem to be running all over the place looking for something have we got some sort of plan and we can explain the plot to him we can say we're looking for a geck a garden of Eden creation kit my village needs it to restore their crops all he says is then things come in kits now huh man the good book don't mention that does it well all right then let's get hunting with that we explore the courtyard of vault city and now we need to take the exit grid to the north to enter vault city proper we see that the city looks new clean pure the gate is guarded by two guards we find a customs house to the right and inside we see a man in a vault suit standing by a chair look outside or if you've got customs business well this is in the back there okay he'll sit you up with all the forms you need we can say well what is this place and he says this is the customs office like the sign outside says have you haven't got customs business what are you doing here we can say that we're looking for the vault and he says the vault it's inside the city why you uh looking to get past the gate when we say yes he says well you could see my boss Wallace and try to get permission to get inside but you'd be wasting your time he never lets anyone in of course there are other ways when we ask for him to clarify he says if you've got the cash then i'll go into detail otherwise when we say that we've got the money but we want to know what he's selling and he says for 200 bucks i can make you a full-fledged citizen you'll have free passage through the gate no hassles i can print out the papers register your serial number and have you on your way in five minutes when we ask him what it takes to become a real citizen he says if you're not born a citizen then you have to take a test to become a citizen the number of outsiders that have taken the test and become citizens zero your chance is less than zero when we say what is this test he says Gregory the pro-console gives a test to any outsiders who want to become citizens that measures their intelligence and their perception and you have to be damn lucky to pass it to most citizens would have trouble with it why is it so hard we can ask and he says since most outsiders can't read due trigonometry or spell australial pithicus you figure it out it's just an excuse to keep outsiders from becoming citizens we can buy one from him sounds good here's 200 dollars all right says skiv they're all done printing here you are citizen and don't tell anyone about this especially Wallace all right this conversation goes very differently with a low intelligence character when we first talk with him and he asks us about forms we can respond needs and skiv says look dim just get at it wait a minute maybe come with me a second dim I've got somebody you got to meet okie dokie we can say and we appear inside vault city at the servant allocation center skiv says found this bunch wandering the wastes barkus this one outsider here looks like good servant material and barkus says you have to be kidding me it's obviously retarded and the chosen one says retarded poo come on says skiv you need someone to work the vault don't you vault geek says the chosen one barkus says well hmm I suppose you'll be expecting a finder's fee and skiv says do outsiders eat their own feces of course I want a finder's fee pee says the chosen one very well says barkus I'll send it off to the vault then maybe it can clear up the storerooms and with that we appear inside vault eight which is incredibly hard to get into any other way and so since I don't want to skip ahead episodes into the future we'll save what happens to a low intelligence character inside vault eight for when I cover vault eight but for a normal intelligence character we still have to find a way to get inside vault city let alone inside vault eight back inside the customs office before we make any rash decisions like buying forged paperwork from skiv here we'll talk with Wallace on the other side of this door hello traveler says Wallace welcome to vault city is there anything I can help you with he says the name Wallace I'm the customs officer for vault city I accommodate those who wish to conduct business in our great walls what do you mean by a accommodate we can say and he says this is the customs office we're responsible for keeping a log of all the goods that come to us via the caravans and supervising all transactions all merchants must pass through customs before entering the city he then gives us a breakdown of all of the caravans and trading that comes from the wasteland here to vault city they get servants from the den and since we've been to the den we know that those servants are actually slaves they get uranium from broken hills and they trade from metal or from redding broken hills is a mining town to the south their mutants mine for uranium and then ship it here by caravan redding is a mining town to the west their merchants used to be really pleasant to deal with but their shipments of ore have slowed considerably as of late it has the people of vault city worried they depend on ore from redding a great deal the leader here at vault city is first citizen joanne lanette she's been serving the city for over 10 years her primary job is to keep the people of the city untainted by the outside world she has to keep the city strong there are many threats first of all the ncr is pressuring them to join the republic and there are lots of nearby radar attacks and then on top of it all there's a big problem coming from the nearby town of gecko the ncr or the new california republic is attempting to unify all of california under one government but the people of vault city aren't interested they have their own town it's strong and protected from the wasteland they don't see any need to join the ncr they see the ncr as being cutthroat and thieves all they want is to drain vault city of its resources the radar problem has been getting worse they used to have attacks in the past but recently they've become more brutal for the first time wallah spheres that they may breach the city's laser turret defenses the problem is they don't know anything about these raiders they don't know where the raiders are striking from the only other person who might know where the raiders are coming from is citizen sergeant stark but he's deeper in the city in the correction center here we find an option since they don't know where the raiders are to track down the raiders in exchange for being allowed into the city and wallah agrees he says yeah you find their base camp and i'll grant you a day pass but there are other ways to get in the city as we will soon see the building to the left of the customs office as a guard house there's just one guard inside and approaching the gate we can talk with the guards stop right there friend he says no one has allowed past this point without proper authorization he says we can't get in unless we have a day pass which we can get from wallahs with a day pass we can conduct business in the city until night falls then we got a high tail it out of there or else the guards will attack from here there are a number of ways we can proceed heading back to the customs office we can talk to the guy who offered to forge us false citizenship papers his name is skive we find an option here to say i've decided to turn you in for selling fake citizenship papers and he says what the nobody's gonna believe you outsider it'll be your word over mine and we can say i sure hope so because i can be pretty persuasive and he says i what you dirty careful there i'd watch your tongue if i were you we can say alternatively if we buy the fake citizenship papers from skive here it's much easier to intimidate him when he says i'd like to see a try wallahs will never believe you we find an option to say oh i think he will once he sees the fake citizenship papers that you gave me of course if you haven't have some cash on you it can be our little secret skive says all right i got a little cash stashed away here i take it 300 bucks now you're gonna keep quiet no problem we can say you have my silence we get the caps but after making this decision skive just says beat it i've got nothing to say to you which means we can no longer get his forged citizenship papers we now have to find another way to get in so if we want the forged papers it's better to buy them from him first before blackmailing him or if we put on our vault 13 jump suit we can convince him that we are a vaultweller from another vault heading back to wallahs he says whoo why you're wearing an original vault suit and we can say yes i am and you won't believe what i had to go through to get the damn thing he says here take this day pass and go speak with our first citizen i'm sure she'll have many questions for you and we can say thanks i think i'll have some questions for her too we can get an easily on the low intelligence character heading into wallahs he says what can i help you with and we can say fras erblow well says wallahs i see i'll have to have a talk with the guards in the courtyard they seem to be letting just about any outside or into vault city nowadays days days days daysy daysy you say how fascinating says wallahs why don't you go back to the courtyard until the rest of your in-bred outsider friends about it okay we can say but then wallahs is actually now that i think about it maybe you better leave your weapons and armor here just for the safety of vault city a car we can say better do the armor first so hey what's that you're wearing underneath your armor oh we can say why you're wearing an original vault suit yep vault suit warm like mom and we get the same response and we get a day pass for free another way is to simply use our skills if we sneak up behind wallahs we can try to pick pocket a day pass from him or if we head to the locker in the southeastern corner of the room we have to make sure that we are hidden on the other side of it but if we are we can pick the lock to also find another day pass we also find a hundred and thirty dollars a stimpak and a first aid kit i read that we could get a day pass by pretending that we're traders this dialogue option is supposed to appear if we have a golden gecko pelt refined uranium ore or a gold nugget in our inventory but every time i tried this i never got wallahs to acknowledge it the final option i was able to trigger is to pass a speech check with wallahs we find an option to say it's very important that you let me in to speak with your leader he says well of course everyone desires an audience with the first citizen sadly her time is only for matters of the utmost importance in the following conversations we find many pitfalls but the correct way to pass this speech check is to say that's why it's vital that i speak to her i'll be sure to throw in a good word about how efficiently the customs offices being run but if you can't help me then and he says well i didn't say i couldn't help you it's just that well what's the purpose of your visit and the only way to proceed is to say i can't tell it to you personally officer as much as i'd like to it's for the first citizen's ears alone that is why it's vital that i speak with her and he says well this is most irregular and we say i wouldn't trouble you if it wasn't a matter of extreme urgency officer i'll be sure to mention how helpful you were when i speak to the first citizen and he complies well this certainly seems to be a matter of the first citizen here's your day pass it's only good during the day at night you'll be asked to leave the city citizens also reserve the right to cancel day pass privileges at any time so behave yourself if we chose to buy the forged papers from skiv even if we blackmailed him and took his three hundred dollars and anytime we can turn him into Wallace your assistant skiv is involved in illegal practices and he says who were you to be accusing of all citizen of anything and we can say well he sold me these fake citizenship papers here look and Wallace's dumbstruck skiv this is how i'm repaid for taking him in as my son he shall be dealt with i assure you and without the screen fades to black and skiv disappears but this way we're out fake citizenship with that we either have a day pass or fake citizenship papers to get inside vult city if we try to use the fake citizenship papers we find a number of ways to mess up heading to the guard he says day pass please and we say i don't need a day pass i am a citizen he says citizen let me see your papers we hand them over and he says well these all look legit but funny i don't recall ever seeing you around here before there are many ways to fail here if we say hmm well perhaps you should be more observant i have an appointment with the first citizen and he's expecting me we fail because the first citizen is actually a woman if we're rude and we say that we hope he'll remember next time or if we're snarky and say why yes i hold citizenship of all of the vult's he says i don't know who you are but you're no citizen he confiscates our papers and says we have to get a day pass like everyone else the only way to get the papers to work is to be kind to the guard and say we must have missed each other i'm pleased to make your acquaintance alternatively we can hand him our day pass which is much cheaper and easier to get but before he allows us in he says all right before you go in we have to search your belongings first what for we can say sometimes outworlders try to smuggle alcohol or habit forming Kim's and vult city buff out jet psycho mentats that sort of thing if we say forget it we are not allowed in the only way to proceed is to allow him to search if he doesn't find any booze or kems on our inventory he says we're clean and we can head on in one way to get around this check is to simply put all of our booze and kems on a companions inventory for some reason he inspects us but not our companions with that the gate slides open and we can finally enter vult city but with that we're all out of time we'll have to explore a vault city to see if we can find a way to get inside their vault in our next episode i publish many videos each and every week on my channel so if you don't want to miss it be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button if you have and if you're like you're still missing out on youtube notifications consider following me on twitter at oxhorn i update twitter manually with every new piece of content that i publish i have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else my designs come on shirts in a variety of men's women's and children's sizes and in a wider ray of colors you can find them on other products as well like smartphone cases pillows posters mug stickers prints etc so if interest did you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here if you like what i do when you want to support me in a more personal way consider becoming a patron on patreon or a member here on youtube but more than anything i'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today thank you so much for watching and i'll see you soon with more brand new videos