music In our last episode, we awoke after being unconscious for two weeks. Elder lions tried to fill us in, the Brotherhood's victory at Project Purity was decisive, and the enclave is scattered. We now have to stamp out the remnants. But activating Project Purity caused a series of brand new problems. When we went to the Jefferson Memorial, we discovered that the project has been taken over by Scribe Bigsley. He made arrangements with Rivet City to help guard caravans of water throughout the wasteland, but these caravans have frequently been way laid by raiders and super mutants. In order to help, we need to head to Rivet City and check in with Officer LePeleteer, who's in charge of the Aqua Pura Caravan Operations from Rivet City. On our way, we pass a returning Rivet City Water Caravan. This is Rivet City Water Bud. Get out of my way. Charming, and as we get close, we see a few changes. We pass a sign. Complementary guards, we pay caps or beer. Nearby we find a canopy erected with peck brawman's tending idol and caravaners drinking up booze. Yep. Well, we'll get on out of here as soon as we're done drinking up his free booze. Driving water is dangerous. Want to get licked up first. We can loot to our heart's content. Sit down, grab a beer. It's free. Free booze? Interesting strategy. Near to the ramp, we see a painted board that's hard to read in the light of day. Water Caravan check in, and heading up the ramp, we see the water caravan check in desk. Sitting behind it, we find Officer LePeleteer. Great. Another water bigger. If you're here looking for water, I'm afraid I can't help you. All the water is at project purity. If you want to hand out, head over to the Jefferson Memorial and ask for scribe Bigsley. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm busy coordinating military operations. I thought Rivet City Security was a police force. Not a military organization. Ha, tell me about it. It's enough trouble just keeping the misgrants on that leaky boat under control. But the brotherhood needs help delivering all that water. But I'm not getting the support I need. There's been an increase in attacks on the caravan, and they don't seem random anymore. To make matters worse, I'm running out of resources. And I'm down to my greenest men. Military operations? You've got to be kidding. Rivet City Security are chumps. Ha, say that a little louder. I've got a lot of disgruntled men who'd be happy to prove you wrong. Now, remove yourself before I have you arrested. Look, Missy, I'm a very busy woman. I don't have time for your bullshit. I'm busy coordinating a military operation here, so if you don't mind... I'm a decent shot. Need another hired gun? Hmm. I've heard about you. I suppose you can handle yourself out there. And I am down to my greenest boys. All right. But it's no cakewalk. I got to get these caravans full of water to the farthest reaches of the wasteland. I'm running out of resources and attacks have increased. I suspect something organized is going on. That's why I'm here, actually. Bigsley sent me. Oh, he did. Huh. I was beginning to think he forgot about us. Not sure how much you know. There's been an increase in attacks on the caravans. Seems organized and not just the random, radar, or mutant encounter. I'm running out of resources and I'm down to my greenest men. I want to get to the bottom of these coordinated attacks. The sooner, the better. Yeah, not interested in dying. Good luck to you and your men. You have right. Clear out of here before I have you arrested. I'm not interested in playing games with you. So unless you're here to offer a hand, go away. Hey, on second thought, hire me and your problems are as good as gone. Good. My veterans are already out in the field or worse. Never came back. I could use someone who knows what she's doing. Sounds like you could use some help. Great. I can really use a strong arm on this one. I need you to escort a caravan from project purity to Canterbury Commons. If, or rather when they get ambushed, I need you to figure out who's behind the attack. I'm going to pass on this one. Find someone else. If you aren't woman enough for the job, fine. I don't want you. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have operations to conduct. Well, I'm getting paid, right? Do the job right and report back to me and I'll make certain you get paid appropriately. At this point, we could pass a speech check to say, is that a plasma rifle you've got there? I could use that on the mission. I suppose I don't really need it pushing papers around here. Do I? Oh, right. Consider it in advance on your payment. You'd better not disappoint. In which case, she hands over her plasma rifle. You sound pretty certain this particular caravan will be attacked. I'm pretty certain any caravan will be attacked. This particular caravan also happens to have my most junior men escorting it. They could really use someone with wasteland experience leading the team. If we do get attacked and I do find a ring later, then what? After protecting the caravan, track down the attackers' base of operations and put an end to it once and for all. I am afraid I'm gonna need to get paid up front. What are you talking about? You did already get paid up front. Or have you forgotten that little plasma rifle I gave you? But if we didn't accept the plasma weapon and we asked the same question, then I'm afraid you're not the woman for the job. I don't have anything I can offer you up front. Can you at least tell me what I'll be getting for completing this mission? I can pay you in bottle caps, maybe some weapons and armor if I have any left from requisitions. Alright, I'll protect the caravan and track down the attackers. Great, I had a feeling you would. Officers Davis and Lauren should have just left Project Purity. If you hurry, you'll catch them. Their course hugs the river closely. If you head north following the river from Project Purity, you should catch up to them. Please hurry. So what's Rivet City getting out of helping the brotherhood? At first it was a win-win. They paid us and shared their technology with us. The spoils of their war with the enclave were particularly enticing. However, with all the recent attacks, the extra resources end up being used just protecting the caravans from being exterminated. I still don't understand why the brotherhood isn't just selling the water. You'd think that'd be the smart thing, right? Then the caravan drivers could use the markup to simply pay for their own security. Wouldn't need us. Maybe it's an indirect marketing campaign for the brotherhood. Having the war with the enclave, they might need new recruits. Whatever the case, as long as they keep paying us in caps and tech, we'll keep escorting the water. So there's a caravan heading to Canterbury Commons that we need to catch up. But first, let's explore Rivet City to see what changes have happened in the past few weeks. Heading up the ramp, we find good old Carlos, Haken and Coffin and Beggin for water. You saved my life. Thank you stranger. I hate to ask you this, but times are hard. Can you spare any more water? Well I've got some aquapura. You can have it if you want. You, are you serious? I can't offer anything in exchange, you know. I can just have it. For free. I insist, my friend. It's the least I could do to help. Really? Thank you. You're the first person willing to actually give me any of that. And with that we gain karma. But if we infected Project purity with modified FEV, really, thank you. You're the first person willing to actually give me any of that. We lose karma. Strangely enough, he doesn't die. I left in Canterbury waiting several weeks and despite drinking infected aquapura, he doesn't die. Being inside Rivet City, we find it more or less the way we left it until we reach the clinic. Inside we see the doc Preston is inundated with new patients. They lie on stretchers and groan. What's happening? Do we have to... You heard. Unfortunately, this isn't medical. Why don't you let me take a look at that? You're wounded. Let me bandage that. Doc, it's crowded in your clinic. Something going around that I should worry about? Oh no. I'm fairly certain it's not contagious. But we are burning the bodies of the deceased just in case. I just wish I knew how to treat these people. It's like their immune system is killing them. I don't know what to do about it. We only see this scene if we infected the Project Purity water supply. If we didn't, we find it exactly the way we left it, with only one patient. The only other changes we see in Rivet City are in the lab. It's completely empty. Not only is Dr. Legon, but all of her scientists as well. This of course is because Rivet City lent all of their scientists to the brotherhood to help at Project Purity. How to catch up the caravan? To find the caravan, we head back towards the Jefferson Memorial and then follow the shore north. Eventually, after fighting several mutants and crisscrossing through several ruined buildings, we find a caravan under attack beneath a bridge. Find that? Find that. Hey, came out of nowhere. I need to get back to report to the pelletier. I just want to know what happened. Thanks for the help. It's Officer Davis. We didn't act fast enough. The caravan driver and brawman are dead, as well as Officer Lauren. But the bandits are dead too. When we loot their bodies, we discover that each of them is holding a holotape, no meeting place. Hi, I'm split Jack. I'm recording this because I figure half of you idiots can't read the shit. You best don't lay this tape around just anywhere. If you're listening to this, it's because one of my boys thinks he can trust you. If he's wrong, you're dead. If he's right, then you're going to be rich. Got us a plan, C. We hit the water mules with the brotherhood busy fighting the enclave. Soon they'll want to give up the whole delivery. You're aware of us around. Then we offer our protection services. Wasteland's dangerous and all, we charge them steep on top of it. We sell the water to whoever we want. If you want in, ride out with the next ambush, stashed water when it's done, the regulars show you where, and then get up to grandma sparkles. Grandma loves visitors and keeps her mouth shut. That, and she cooks a mean stew. So that's where we meet. Wilhelm's wharf. It's on the river. Don't get lost. Oh, and memorize the past phrase. It's my alert stew. If you forget it, don't bother coming round. You'll get shot. No kidding. So Splitjack is leading a gang of thugs that is directly targeting Rivet City water caravans. And we know where to find him. Heading across the Potomac, we find Wilhelm's wharf just north of the Arlington slash Wasteland Metro. As we get close, we see a sign. Captain Paglia dockside bar and grill. Here we find a bunch of bandits, all wearing identical outfits, metal armor and metal helmets. What are you looking at? Another new recruit? Fathering me? Talk to the boss, Splitjack. We find the leader of this band Splitjack, sans the helmet, but plus an eye patch, standing on a dock. Who the hell are you? I'm here to send you and your gang into retirement. Not any last words. Damn it. I was just going to have some stew that grandma whipped up. Fine. Have it your way, asshole. And what that he and his gang turned hostile. This is a quick and easy way to finish the quest. After cleaning them up, all we have to do is return to Officer Lapelleteer. Or we can say nothing. You would need to eat yourself. I don't got much luck for idiots. You better know the passphrase, asshole. Or we can say I'm your worst nightmare. That's so. You wonder the newbies? You best know that passphrase, asshole. You're dead. Or we can say I'm nobody you need to worry about. Sister, I worry about everybody. Can't trust no one. You know the passphrase? Or we can say I came for the job. You're still hiring guns? Huh. You're one of the newbies then. Fine. So long as you know the passphrase, you're in. If not, you're dead. Uh, open sesame? The hell that's supposed to mean. No matter. That ain't the passphrase, so you're dead, asshole. Which has a predictable outcome? Or we can say passphrase? I don't know anything about a passphrase. Sad for you. Because only people that know the passphrase get away with snooping around our business. Frayed you're going to die, girl. Which has a similar result. Or we can say, um, oh yeah, the passphrase. It's eye patch. Very funny, asshole. You won't be laughing when I'm done with you. And that doesn't make us friends either. Our only positive option is to say, Myrlerks, too. OK, you're lucky you knew that. Don't know who let you in to really care. This is a real simple game. Whoever's the toughest sets the rules. And that's me. And I got just one rule. Do what the hell I say when I say it. Now, find a seat. We're waiting for some of the boys to get back. Oh, and put this all. We're gang. We all wear the same uniform. When that he gives us a full suit of metal armor and a metal helmet, the same outfit we saw his bandits wearing. From this point on, if we ever try to talk to him without wearing the outfit, he says, Damn it, girl. Like I told you, just one rule. Do what the hell I say. We're gang. We all wear metal armor. So put it on already. Yeah, he told us to take a seat. OK, we see his other bandits mulling around. I'm sure they're waiting for something sitting down. Oh, we see Grandma Sparkle come out. What are you looking at? Well, that was just rude. You watch out for gui. They're all over. Nice of her to look out for us. OK. Right. Nothing seems to be happening. Well, standing up, we can go talk to Grandma Sparkle. Well, look at this. We got us a wanderer all the way out here in Wilmswarf. You must got some important business out here to be wandering around. But, Taint none of I beeswax what you're doing. But if you're interested in trading, maybe we can help each other. What are you doing way out here? My boys are hunting lurks. Find us meet you could get. But you don't move around in your stomach like Mole Rat does. Rat dangerous those things. Just assume take your head off as look at you. Watch yourself out here. They're all over. Oh, I see. She has family. They're out hunting my lurks. OK, is there anything going on here? Some fellas came out here a while ago that said they was looking for some do-gooder that came out from one of them balls. I told them I ain't seen nobody like that and set them on their way. They might still be around here though. If you think you can help them. Don't worry, we've already met. We can barter with her. We always need bullets. Take Stam near a hundred of them to kill a guai. But she doesn't have much. About 40 camps in a small selection of meat. I gotta go now. Y'all come back now, you hear? Well, looks like nothing's about to happen. Maybe we should go talk to Splitjack again. When is it? Take a seat and relax already. You're making me nervous. So what's this big score? No one told you? It's simple. We hit water caravans and stash the aquapura. And after rivet cities had enough, we offer our Wasteland Protection Services. Then we control the water. And we charge whoever, whatever we want for. How do you like that? At this point, the Cuesta Virges. We can take the good path or the bad path. We'll start by taking the bad path. We can challenge this guy's authority by saying, it's time for someone else to take charge. You and me, right now, time to die. You got a death wish? Find by me. Nives, pipes, or boards. Uh, never mind. Didn't think so. Now sit down and shut up. Guns. Did I say guns? No, I didn't. I said knives, pipes, or boards. I'm still the boss of this gang, so I still set the rules. So what will it be, asshole? We can choose either of these three options, all of which get the same response from Split Jack. Great. Here's a lead pop. Here's nail board. Here's combat knife. Use that and only that. I get hit with something other than that, or by anyone else, my boy's joining in. Good luck. You're going to need it. With that, we have a brave moment to equip the weapon before the duel begins. Note that if we have a companion nearby, he'll jump into the duel, which spoils it turning them all hostile. I had to tell Fox to wait inside Granny's shack. The fight is surprisingly difficult. He has a lot of HP for a character of his level, and he's really good at carrying. The other members of his gang stand nearby and clap and cheer, and when we finally win, fight, fight, fight! Well, they don't seem too devastated at the loss of their dear leader. Eventually one of them addresses us. Kill the boss, Baron Square. Good job, kid. Normally that'd make you the new boss, but we're all tired of bosses. But we like Split Jack's plan. So if you can get that bitch at Rivet City to buy into our protection services, we'll split the take with you. So we don't need you to be our leader, but we will cut you in on the protection racket, if you can get Lapella teared to sign on. Oh man, so I can't be our raider boss? Dang it. Looting Split Jack, we see that he was playing fair. He died wielding a combat knife, even though he had a Chinese officer sword and a plasma pistol in his inventory. We've got nothing to talk about until you've got Lapella teared to give us the protection contract. Now get it. Well, they won't let us be their boss, but at least we can make some money. Heading back to Lapella teared. Well, did you take care of whoever's behind the attacks on the caravans? We find an option to say. Yeah, I killed him, but I'm here to set up a protection deal with the gang. What? Never mind. I was just kiddin'. You're not very funny. Now get out of here until you've made progress with taking care of that gang. We can pass a speech check to say, pay 500 caps now, and I'll call off the attacks. Damn it. I just don't have that kind of money at my disposal. Here's the deal. I'll give you 500 caps from my own personal savings mind you, and you call off the attacks, but that's it. That's all I have. Not good enough. 500 caps now, and more when I say it's time for more. I gave you the money. That's it. You've pushed me too far. Walk away right now. If you come around here again, I'll kill you. Ooh, and we lose karma. She tells us to go soak our heads. Or we can say, it's a deal. I'll call off the attacks. Fine. Here. But really, that's it. There's nothing left. You're squeezing a rock to get water now. Our business is concluded. If you or any of your gang come back here to try to get anything more out of me, I'll kill you. Get out of here. In which case, we also lose karma, and from now on, she'll kill us on site. Or instead of passing the speech check from money up front, we can say, the protection contract costs a mere 200 caps per week. I can't believe you're trying to extort me. I'm trying to do the right thing here, and you're totally taking advantage. You're a horrible person. Fine. Tell your gang to send someone over once a week. I'll find some way to get the caps. But you. I never want to see you again. I trusted you. If you come around again, I'll kill you. You understand me? I'll kill you. In which case, she agrees to the weekly plan. But we still lose karma, and we're now kill on site. After that, we complete protecting the waterway by taking the evil karma path, heading back to Wilhelms' Wharf. We can check in with our new banded buddies. It ain't time to cut you in yet. We're still collecting the caps. I'm back in a few days. She says a few days here, but we have to wait a week, so coming back one week later. You're here for your cut. Here you go. Don't spend it all in one place. But our share of the 200 caps is only 50 bottle caps, but we can get 50 caps each week. Or we can try to get some more out of this banded. We can try to pass a luck check by saying, come on. I know you've got something more. Quit holding out on me. Fine. Here's an extra 50 caps. Now get out of here until next week. In which case, we get 50 more caps. Or we can pass a strength check to say, give me more. Or I'll bust you up side the head. Damn it, man. Why do you gotta be like that? Here. Take out my caps. And get the hell out of here until next week. But passing this, we only get 25 extra caps. Or we can pass a speech check to say, if it wasn't for me, there'd be no protection racket. Yeah, I guess you're right. Here's a bigger share of the take. We'll see you next week. In which case, we also only get 25 more caps. Or we can try to pass a karma check by saying, not good enough. Give me your caps. Or I'll take them from your corpse. But if we have good karma... I might have believed you if you were capable of that. But everyone knows you're a saffy. Or if we have neutral or evil karma... Just don't hurt me, all right? Here's all my caps. And we get an extra 50 caps. Or we can simply take our fair share. How long? I'll see you in a week. Right boss. Good luck out there. The waste are dangerous. Haha. Haha. We raiders are so witty. We don't see Grandma Sparkle anywhere, heading inside her shack. Not sure where she ran off to. Everything in here is set to own so we can't take any without losing karma. But hey, we're raiders now. What do we care? Nearby, there's an easy locked gun cabinet with a hunting rifle inside. There's another hunting rifle with plenty of ammunition on a nearby countertop. The wastelander outfit and a brawman skin outfit. It's all low level stuff because we find Wilhelms' warf pretty early in the game. We can snag some Raycon armor in a footlocker near to her bed. And despite saying that she's got boys live in here, we only find one bed. Head outside. Oh there she is. Well I'm glad nothing happened to her. And true to her word, if we ever return to Rivet City after choosing this option, Officer LaPelateer says... I warned you not to come around. I will not be extorted. Over here! She turns hostile. And if we fight her, all of Rivet City's security turns hostile. The good karma path is instead of challenging Split Jack to a fight, we can kill him, or pass a very difficult speech check to point out the flaws in his plan. We can say look, they're not going to pay you to protect something they're already given away for free. I'm the boss of this game. We do what I say. Don't forget that. But if we pass the speech check, he says... What? Well... Damn it. You're probably right. What the hell was I thinking? Guess I have to come up with another plan. Come on boys, now we're sticking around here. Let's go blow off some steam. Kill anything or anyone you like. With that he... Yeah! Bring it! Open fire! They killed Kama Sparkle! I looked this up afterwards and this is consistent behavior. By passing this speech check, if Kama Sparkle is nearby, Split Jack and his banded goons turn hostile to Kama Sparkle and murder her. They then race off Guns Drong. This is the only way to complete the quest without killing Split Jack. If we chose to resolve this by passing the speech check or by killing him, when we next return to Officer LaPelateer... Well... Did you take care of whoever's behind the attacks on the caravans? A guy named Split Jack. Not to worry, he's dead now. Really? That's excellent. Thank you. As soon as I have a moment, I'll make arrangements to see your reward. I killed the ringleader. You owe me big time, lady. Yes, yes, I'm sure it wasn't easy. I'll make the necessary arrangements to have you paid. Whoa, whoa, whoa, wait. What do you mean you'll make arrangements? Yes. Well, I don't really have anything I can give you at the moment. I've simply run out of resources. Only a quarter of my escorts have made it back. I fear the worst. I'll send word to Bigsley, the Brotherhood scribe running things over at Project Purity. I'm sure the Brotherhood can reward you for your efforts. Now if you'll excuse me... You're not trying to stiff me, are you? Nothing of the sort. How dare you even suggest such a thing! Look around for God's sake. Did you see a mountain of bottle caps? A stash of weapons? Only a quarter of the escorts have returned. Those poor boys are likely dead. And sadly for you, they took the last of our resources with them. No, you'll just have to pry a reward from the Brotherhood. Speak with Bigsley at Project Purity. I'm sure he'll be able to offer you a reward. Now, if you'll excuse me... I want my money, and I want it now. I am afraid I don't have anything to give you. And now don't you go getting upset. I've simply run out of resources. Only a quarter of my escorts have made it back. I fear the worst. You'll have to see about getting a reward from the Brotherhood. Speak with the scribe Bigsley at Project Purity. I'm sure he has something he can reward you with. Now, if you'll excuse me... And with that, she sits down bold as you like. Well, I don't think I'm gonna stand for this. March it off to the Jefferson Memorial. We can talk with scribe Bigsley, but we find the poor guy preoccupied. The caravan never returns, sir. Oh, that's a shit. They're a weak late, sir. Damn it. I'm aware of that. I make the shipping schedules, don't I? Should we send out a search party? For a couple of Wasteland hustlers? And a pack of brawmen? What about our men? I'm not wasting any more resources. Yes, sir. If Lyon wants to chase after his delivery spy, let him do it. But I'm done wasting resources and risking lives on this... Pet project, if it is. For what it's worth, you aren't the only one who feels that way. Thank you. Now, come and get the hell out of here. I mean, you can think. Yes? Officer LaPella Tears said that you'd be rewarding me. Yes? Yes, I received a message from her. She's here somewhere. And... Well, no matter where it is, I know what it said. Ah. The initiate's just finished itemizing a requisition of confiscated enclave gear. There were a few items that we didn't immediately send out. I suppose you're welcome to those. The brotherhood... Thanks you for your efforts. Now, if you don't mind, I think I'll just take a brief nap here at my desk. And for resolving the quest this way, we get a gabbling laser with ammunition, a plasma pistol with ammunition, and a full suit of enclave power armor. We'll leave Bigsley for now, and next head to Megatun to try to figure out exactly what's happening to these missing water shipments. A drama which I'll cover in my next episode. I publish new Fallout videos each and every week, so if you don't want to miss it, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have, and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So with interest, you can find the link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon, or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching. I'll see you soon with the next episode in the full story of Broken Steel.