Like in Fallout 1, Fallout 2 has random and special encounters. Some of these are story related. We only get them when we unlock them after making certain decisions in the story. Some of them are location related. We only trigger them when exploring the world map in a certain area. Many of the random encounters are pretty similar. We'll find mobsters attacking caravans, raiders attacking caravans, raiders attacking mobsters, Yakuza attacking mobsters, aliens attacking Yakuza. For this video, I'm not gonna cover all of those possibilities. Instead, I'm going to focus on the random encounters that we unlock from quest choices and in certain locations and special encounters. Special encounters are different from random encounters in that they're not randomly generated, though they are randomly placed and they happen only once. One of the first encounters we are likely to see is while exploring the world map outside of Klamath or Modok. Without warning, we arrive in the desert. We see the enclave led by Frank Horrigan standing before a small family. Old man, you will come with us. Leave us alone. I will never support the cause of your superiors. I will not ask you again. Come now, or you will be made an example of... I would rather what knowledge I have disappear with me to the grave. So be it. Kill them all. Then Frank Horrigan turns towards us. This is none of your affair. Turn around and walk away. But even if we don't, Frank Horrigan is the one who turns around and walks away. We get this encounter long before we ever meet Frank Horrigan long before we even know what the enclave is. What knowledge did this man have that was so dangerous that the enclave would send Frank Horrigan after him? What knowledge did he have that could have been so useful to the enclave that this man preferred that he and his family be killed then to give it to them? We may never know, but we can only assume that these poor people died heroes. Next, while wandering the world map after having visited Redding, and we can sometimes stumble into an encounter where a man races at a shouting, you killed my brother. Now I kill you. This is Newt Morton, one of the four Morton brothers. We recall as I explored in my video on Redding, we have an opportunity to do a job for the sheriff that requires us to clear out the Wana Mingo Mine, the Wana Mingo Mine, which was guarded by Frog Morton. Frog Morton was instantly hostile. He wasn't a nice guy, and we had to kill him to move forward. But what the sheriff didn't tell us at the time was that Frog Morton had three angry brothers, bent on revenge. These three brothers track us around the world map until we kill them or they kill us. Each of the brothers comes with a band of ruffians, but they're not terribly difficult. The other brothers are snake and toad Morton. Each brother is a little more powerful than the last, and the final brother, Snake Morton, carries an ancient KG 11E, a moderately rare weapon. Then one day, we stumble upon a special encounter. We can recognize these special encounters from others, because an icon on the map turns into a lightning bolt and blinks red. We have discovered a new location, unknown. In this case, we learned that we've discovered a herd of brahmin. Uh-oh, are these like the brahmin and fall-out one, where they walk around saying, moo, I say. Yeah! Not even the carrier needers are interested in your radiated corpse. We get attacked by kamikaze exploding brahmin. It is possible to survive this encounter, if we know what's coming and we run around, but only by fleeing. If we attack the kamikaze brahmin, we can kill them, but new ones appear in their place. We find the next encounter by exploring a series of tiles next to each other, directly north of Modok. This encounter only appears here, and it doesn't stand out. The game simply describes it as an encounter with a traitor and guards. When we appear here, we see a traitor surrounded by guards like many other encounters in the game, but unlike these caravanners and traitors, the game describes this man as a salesman. Greetings, friend. He says, my name is Willie, and I have a deal for you. He seems to be reading from a cart, and after a while, we doze off. A while later, we grogley open our eyes, as we finally notice that someone is kicking us. Well, says Willie, are you interested or not? Interested in what we can ask? And he says, this little gem is truly one of a kind, from the far reaches of... It works by pointing it like, look, I don't know what the hell this says. You want it or not. The price is $20,000. $20,000? Okay, I'll take it. Yes, indeed, he says Willie. You overrept this. It was nice giving you the business. See you around, and with that, Willie walks off. But we see that we have purchased an alien blaster, a strange gun of obviously alien origin. Looks like it can support small energy cells, however, minimum strength two, and has a magazine size of 30, and weighs five pounds. I got extremely lucky, because I got the alien blaster on my first time finding Willie. You see, Willie has much more than the alien blaster for sale. If we first are lucky enough to trigger the random encounter, the game then randomly chooses from a variety of different weapons in the game upon talking with Willie. But this random selection is limited by our level. If we're low level, we only gain access to the items he carries for low level characters. If we're high level, that pool is added to with a bunch of higher level items. We have the potential to get the sharpened spear, the spiked knuckles, a knife, rock, or a regular spear, throwing knives, 10 millimeter pistol, crowbar, club brass knuckles, or the red rider BB gun, a sharpened pole, the combat knife, the desert eagle, a double barrel shotgun, a hunting rifle, a 10 millimeter SMG, a 14 millimeter pistol, a cattle prodder, a ripper, a power fist, and a assault rifle, a sniper rifle, and a mini gun. We have to be level 13 or higher to have an opportunity to purchase the alien blaster. We are also more likely to get the alien blaster if we meet Willie when we are level 21 or higher, as that knocks us off the loot tables of some of the lower level items. If we are level 21 or higher, we have a one in five chance of finding the alien blaster on his inventory when we find him. If we're lucky enough to find him and we're at the right level, and when we find him, the game chooses the alien blaster, we then have to pass an additional luck check. And if we fail it, the game re-rolls his inventory. But if we pass the luck check, we get the alien blaster. I should note that this is one of the few scripted encounters that is repeatable. If we didn't get the alien blaster on our first attempt, we can travel these four cells just north of Modoc until we get the willian counter again. And it's well worth it. The alien blaster is the best weapon in the game. It has the highest damage per action point of any single shot weapon in Fallout 2. And it has the second highest magazine capacity of any weapon in the game. Its base damage is between 30 and 90, which means that a critical hit to the eyes can do a whopping 360 points of damage combined with appropriate perks. This weapon has the potential to one shot any enemy in the game except for Frank Oregon. It has an AP of four, but with the fast shot and bonus rate of fire perks, we can whittle that down to two. The only drawback to this weapon is that it has a relatively short range of only 10 hexes. The sniper rifle and the gouse rifles with a weapon range of 30, far surpass it. But it's still an essential weapon to get, especially after we complete the game. Next, we stumble upon another unknown encounter. We arrive in a desert field littered with corpses, death claws, people, brawmen, blood piles and bones. We see only one thing alive, and that's a dog in the very middle. We see a ragged looking dog that could expire at any moment. After a while, the dog meanders towards us and then begins to follow us around. The dog seems to take a liking to you. This can't be good. Examining our character sheet, we see that we've picked up a new perk called the jinxed. The good thing is that everyone around you has more critical failures in combat. The bad thing is that you do too. And we see that our luck is all the way down to one. By talking with the pariah dog, we roll a luck check. If we fail the luck check, he joins our party, taking up one of our party limit slots. If our party limit is full, he still joins our party. And he follows us around forever. Also, he doesn't do anything. He doesn't defend us in combat. He just stands there. The only way to get rid of the jinxed perk and to restore our luck back to normal is to kill the pariah dog. But that's easier said than done. Despite being malnourished when we find it, the pariah dog has a huge amount of HP, over 700. Meaning we'll be huddling away at this guy for quite some time. But once the deed is done, we find the jinxed perk gone and our luck returned to normal. Our next special encounter puts us in a parking lot just outside a ruined building. We see a whole bunch of people attacking one guy in the middle of the parking lot. No one threatens doom bot. Grim buster. Ah! The gene pool needs a little chlorine. Soap. We don't need no stinkin' soap. The village is a happy place, but you made it very, very angry. You have embarrassed our country with your actions for the last time. The unwashed villagers are here to protect people from scum like you. Unwashed vengeance. The men and women in black are the unwashed villagers. The one dressed as a peasant is a spamer named Grim Reaper. He says things like, will there be a Mac version? And I didn't mean those death threats. When the unwashed villagers finally kill the troll named Grim Reaper, they run off and say, don't wait up for us. We're out of here. Come join us sometime. This house is clean. Unwashed villagers save the day once again. Can I poke him with a stick to make sure? This entire random encounter is a reference to the Fallout community that existed at the time that Fallout 2 was in development. At the time, there was an interplay message board where fans of the Fallout franchise would gather to talk about Fallout and talk about the then upcoming Fallout 2. The members of that online forum community, which incidentally still exists to this day, dubbed themselves the unwashed villagers. And at the time Fallout 2 was in production, their forum was invaded by a troll named the Grim Reaper. The Grim Reaper flooded their forum with all sorts of spam and toxicness. And so the unwashed villagers banded together to ban him and delete all of his comments from the forum. And that event is what's being celebrated here in Fallout 2 as a special encounter. Needless to say, it made members of the unwashed village very happy. Our next special encounter is a meeting with King Arthur's Knights. We arrive in the ruins of a castle and a raid before us are a group of knights, dressed in power armor. One of them addresses us. Do you speak the King's tongue? Hello! Hey, I'm over here. Could you spare a moment of your time? Now come on, don't ignore me. Please, I need to ask you something important. Moving forward, Hale Travelers. My name is Arthur, son of Uther Pendragon from the Brotherhood of Steel. We are on a quest for the Holy Hand grenade of Antioch. Has thou seen it? Holy what of who we can say? And Arthur says, the Holy Hand grenade of Antioch? Why? It is only the greatest handheld anti-personnel weapon of its kind. Why do you search for such a terrible weapon? We of the Brotherhood of Steel seek to find this most devastating weapon of our ancestors and secure it from those who would abuse the power of the Holy Hand grenade of Antioch. Why, we can ask? Well, he says, because the Brotherhood of Steel is dedicated to protecting the weak and defenseless and this thing could really hurt someone. Why? We can again ask. Um, because it's really the only moral thing to do. Why? We can again ask? Well, um, look now. We are really quite busy. Are you going to help us or not? Have you seen the Holy Hand grenade of Antioch or not? If we say no, he says, well then, no sense in continuing this conversation, we are off and he walks away. Or we can say, yes. Well, why didn't you say so, says Arthur? If you could just tell us where we'll be off and you can get back to whatever it is you were doing. And we can point in a random direction. Right then, thank you for your help, something for your trouble. Wait, we can say, I am also on a quest. I seek the Holy Gak. Have you seen it? Gak you said? Why yes. We have two of them. Don't need another one. Thanks all the same though. Since you have two of them, we can say, maybe you could give me one. Oh no, no. Couldn't do that, says Arthur. Wouldn't be right to end your quest that easily. There's some more of them. That way, go get your own. He points in a direction about the same way you pointed when you told them where the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch was. And that ends the conversation. Well, he says, we must continue our quest for the Hand Grenade of Antioch. Come, Patsy. And Robbins Minstrel's Singatune. Raise the Robin's run away. No. Raise the run away away. Aren't you done? If we choose to kill them, we don't get any power armor, but we can walk away with some pretty powerful weapons, including a number of gattling lasers. This, of course, is a reference to Mottipythons search for the Holy Grail. Now, there is another Special Encounter related to this one that was ultimately cut from the game. But we can find traces of this Special Encounter in the game files. But because it was cut from the game, the scripting for the characters doesn't work correctly. In this Special Encounter, we stumble upon a cave. Outside the cave, there is a Vorpal Rat surrounded by bones. And we find King Arthur and his knights, assuming we found them earlier, attacking the Vorpal Rat. The Vorpal Rat, who in turn, kills them all. Then heading into the cave, we find the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch. But, sadly, as it was cut from the game, we never gained this item in the game. However, Obsidian actually added the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch to fall on Hivegas, as part of a wild wasteland encounter. We can find it in the basement of a building inside Camp Searchlight. Let's paint this place red. When we stumble upon the next Special Encounter, we stand before a donut-shaped monument. There is a pillar outside. And our Pip Boy tells us that this monument is called the Guardian of Forever. We can go all the way around it, but there's nothing there. However, if we try to pass through the circle, we arrive in a vault. Wait a minute, this is Vault 13. We see the number 13 engraved on all the doors. How did we get to Vault 13? What are we doing here at Vault 13? It appears to be empty. We don't see a soul. Heading into the supply room, we see that the foot lockers are filled with the Vault 13 flasks. Most of the other lockers are empty, but we can walk away with a small assortment of camps. A first aid kit, some ments and some stimpacts. Interestingly, no geck. Moving west, we see the computer lab in the library. All the same computers we remember from Vault 13, but we can't access any of them. Nothing interesting here. So moving east, we get open the door to the overseer. In the northern room, we find a couple of foot lockers, one has a 10-millimeter pistol with some ammunition. The other has a combat knife, and the third has a shotgun with shotgun shells. Moving east, we find the computer mainframe room. And one of them is beeping at us. If we inspect it, we see a terminal with a functioning water chip. And if we fiddle with it, whoops, says the chosen one, you have broken the water chip. It might be anywhere from 100 to 150 days before this Vault runs out of water. For some reason, this thought comforts you. With that, we appear back at the Guardian of Forever. So did the chosen one just go back in time to Vault 13? Was the chosen one responsible for destroying the water chip in Vault 13? Did this one moment start the series of events that led to the plot of both Fallout and Fallout 2? How is this canonical? Is the Guardian of Eternity real? Is it just a mad radiation-induced hallucination? Did the chosen one really go back in time to destroy Vault 13's water chip? Do we simply consider it an Easter egg and not take it seriously? I don't know how to handle this. I think we can categorize this as an Easter egg not part of the actual lore. For the entire thing is a reference to Star Trek, the original Star Trek. In the episode The City on the Edge of Forever, the crew of the Starship Enterprise stumbled upon a time portal, which has a striking similarity to the one we just found in the wasteland. This time portal, however, is sentient and was able to speak with Captain Kirk and the crew. When Dr. McCoy walked through the portal, he inadvertently changed something in the year 1930 that broke their reality. The ship orbiting above had disappeared. When we stumble upon our next special encounter, we find the decomposing body of a whale lying in its own impact crater. This whale appeared to have fallen from a great height. Near to this colossal whale carcass, we find a box and inside the box, we find some daisies. A flower pot of daisies. Aren't they nice? This scene is in reference to Douglas Adams, hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy. A novel which has a very similar scene, recreated in the 2005 film adaptation of the novels. It is important to note that suddenly, and against all probability, a sperm whale had been called into existence several miles above the surface of an alien planet. And since this is not a naturally tentable position for a whale, this innocent creature had very little time to come to terms with its identity. This is what it thought as it fell. Ah, what's happening? Who am I? Why am I here? What's my purpose in life? What do I mean by who am I? Okay, calm down, calm down, get a grip now. Ooh, this is an interesting sensation. What is it? It's a tingling in my... Well, I suppose I've started finding names with these. Let's call it a tail. Yeah, tail. And hey, what's this roaring sound? Wushing past what I'm suddenly going to call my head. Wind, is that a good name? A little dude? Yeah, this is really exciting. I'm dizzy with anticipation. Or is it the wind? There's an awful lot of that now, isn't it? And what's this thing coming towards me very fast? So big and flat and round, it needs a big, white sounding name like, Ow, Ow, round, Ground, that's it, Ground. Ha, I wonder if it'll be friends with me. Hello, ground. Oh, I'm so excited. Our next special encounter only happens if a strict set of circumstances have been met inside the town of Modok. Remember in my video on Modok? We found the injured Brahman Bess lying on the ground behind Grisham's slaughterhouse. At the time, we used our doctor skill to heal Bess. After doing so, Bess follows us around Modok as a temporary companion. At this moment, if we wanted to, we could have sold Bess to Grisham to slaughter. However, this option only comes up when we ask him to make some jerky for us. He says, wow, that's a fine looking animal you have there. Should make for some fine jerky. Tell you what, I'll just keep some of the jerky as payment. What do you say? We can say no way. I love Bess. Nobody's gonna make jerky out of her, in which case she continues to follow us around Modok until we leave, then disappears from the game. Or we can say, sounds good to me, when can I come back and pick up my jerky? Grisham says great, come back in about a week. You can pick up your jerky in the smokehouse, locate it just outside the slaughterhouse. I'll leave it in a sack for you. Good doing business with you. With that Bess disappears. And if we had to the slaughterhouse, we see that one more Brahman has been added to the pen. Now if we come back a week later, we'll find Bess gone, and the sack of meat left for us, as promised. However, if we're having second thoughts, we can open the gate to the Brahmin pen and have a chat with Bess. Moo, she says, poor girl, the chosen one can say, maybe I shouldn't have sold you for jerky. Would you like to get out of here? Moo! Okay, then says the chosen one. Let's get out of here. With that all of the brawman, converge on the exit. This can't get awkward as we can't tell them to move, and they can get in our way. So it's best to dash out first before they block us inside, as this gate is the only exit. They then travel through the exit grid, and I'm sure the chosen one goes to bed at night, thinking he or she has done a very good thing. However. One day while traveling the world map just outside of Modok, we have a chance to run into a herd of brawman. We arrive at a desert plane. We startle a flock of vultures feeding off a dead herd of brawman. And moving north. Oh no! It's the entire brawman herd. They're dead. We killed them. And the moral of the story is that the slaughterhouse is probably a preferable end when compared to the cold indifference of the burning desert. I should put that one on a bubblegum wrapper. In our next special encounter, we discover a tin woodsman. We arrive near to a house outside of which is a man in enclave power armor. Oil can. What was that? Oil can. Nearby we find an oil can. If we use it on the man in power armor, he says, thanks a lot. You have no idea how long I've been stuck here. Well take this for your trouble. I have to go. Uh thanks we can say. And the tin woodsman runs off. For our efforts he gives us a stack of 150 micro fusion cells. Examining the oil can which is a one of a kind item, you see a can of armor go. A space age polymer lubricant for powered armor. It weighs three pounds. So our friend in the power armor was all rusted up. He couldn't move an inch. I guess he was lucky that he rusted up right next to an oil can. There isn't anything of interest in the cabin that we can loot. Though there are a number of set pieces that are rare, unique to this cabin. Including the cola fridge, a unique model of the fridge that we don't see elsewhere in the game and the stove. The tin woodsman is of course a reference to the tin man from the wizard of Oz. In our next special encounter we find a man guarding a bridge. For some reasons as the chosen one, I think I should save my game in a brand new slot. We arrive at the southern end of a chasm. There's no exit grid on this end. To continue we have to cross this bridge, but it is being guarded by a robed figure. Stop! Who would cross the bridge of death must answer me these questions three? Air the other side you see. We find three options. All which have the same response. We can say, ask me the questions, bridge fever. Now I'm not afraid. What is your name? We see a number of options including Oxford of Arroyo, Harry, Hakunin, Testicles, Richard Grey, Seymour Heine, the chosen one, or maybe I'll just come back later. If we answer this question incorrectly, the bridge keeper laughs and we die. Correct answers are either Oxford of Arroyo or the chosen one. If we answer it correctly he says, what is your request? We find four options. To search for the holy geck, to search for a way to save my village, ahhh quest? Or maybe I'll just come back when you're feeling a little better. Incorrect answers lead to our death. The two correct answers are to search for the holy geck and to search for a way to save my village. If we answer correctly we get to the third question. The bridge keeper says, what is the minimum requirement for the quick pockets perk? We find eight options. I don't really know. Strength of five, agility of five, agility of six, level three, level six, level nine, there are two correct answers here. Agility of five or level three. Or we can say, what do you mean? The statistic or level requirement. If we choose the ladder, I don't know that. He dies and we can loot his body. On his corpse are the bridge keeper's robes. This smelly, filthy garment must be made out of some special fabric in order to have withstood the foulness of the bridge keeper's body. Oddly enough, it has plasma burns and scorch marks all over it. As if these weapons were used against it to no effect. We have no idea why it's purple. It weighs ten pounds. The bridge keeper's robes is a pretty decent item. It's nearly as good as a full suit of combat armor, having all of the same statistics, except it has no radiation resistance bonus and it weighs half as much as a suit of combat armor. It's a great little find early on in the game where combat armor is scarce. Now that final question could be different. Instead of asking about the perk, the bridge keeper could ask, which non-player character from Fallout 1 survived to appear in the sequel. We find a number of pitfalls here. We can say, I don't know that. Or Ian, Dog Meat, Tandy, Tyco, Harold, or we can say, what do you mean? NPC allies or NPC enemies. The last option ends with his spontaneous combustion, but the correct answers are Harold, Tandy, and Dog Meat. We'll learn why Dog Meat in just a bit. If we get the third and final question correct, the bridge keeper says, I'm going to ask the good questions. I'm going to talk to my agent about this. I keep telling him I have to stop doing these cheese gigs. How am I ever going to get the respect that I deserve being in low budget movies and video games? Hmm, I should really think about getting into car repair. I hear that's where all the money is made these days. There are other questions as well. We could get how much weight can a person with a strength of 6k, assuming he has the strong back perk. How are responses? I don't really know. 200 pounds? 225 pounds? 250 pounds? 275 pounds? 300 pounds? 325 pounds? Or how many levels of the strong back perk does the person have? The final answer ends with his explosion. The correct answer is 225 pounds. After for any reason we choose to attack the bridge keeper, he summons an explosive cow. And it works just like the explosive cow encounter. If we manage to kill the cow, he summons another one. No matter how we manage to pass the bridge keeper once done, we can cross the bridge and return to our car, which oddly enough is located on the other side of this gorge. Not sure how that happened. Needless to say, this entire encounter is a reference to, and the dialogue is practically lifted from, the bridge of death scene and money python search for the holy grail. Our next special encounter is called the Caffeine of Broken Dreams. We arrive in a familiar spot that we haven't actually been here before. We know it by reputation. The Vautweller told us stories of the hub and his visits there. Here we stand outside the multi-as-falken as it existed during the events of Fallout 1. Heading inside however we see the characters here are very different. Each of the characters here is having his own floating dialogue. We'll listen to the man in the middle first. I was originally one of the hero models for Fallout 1. Of course I didn't make the final cut. They claimed it was too much animation. Too many frames they said. I'm black. You figure it out. Every time you think you're getting ahead, whitey changes the rules. I wish I could get my hands on. We begin to understand what's going on here. These are the different possible player character sprites for Fallout 1 and Fallout 2. Next we'll talk to the redhead. I can't believe I didn't make the final cut in Fallout 1, she says. They chose that black-haired strumpet instead of all the nerve. A black-haired female model. Can you get any more generic? Boring. Redheads are infinitely more interesting. That black-haired female model got in only because she slept with every artist on the team. And the programmers. And the project leader. They're so easily swayed. Show a little skin. And their spines turn to rubber. So I get shafted and end up being filler NPCs involved 13. Key rise. Talk about typecasting. I'm surprised they rendered that black-haired female model with any clothes. I mean, it's not like she was in them very much during the screening process. I hate men. Well except for that dream he's got everts, I think he's stuck up for me. I only had to sleep with him a few times for him to vote for me. Yikes. A lot of bitter people here at the cafe of broken dreams. Though I suppose we should have got that from the name. Next we can move on to this guy to the right. I had one of those violent dumbest stone players running me. And let me tell you, it was fun for a while. But it gets old quick. There's only so much killing to do before you get jaded. We must have spent three hours on the character Genscreen before my player finally decided to actually play the game. Ian was more dangerous to me than the enemies we were fighting. I hope he's dead wherever he is. Check out the muscles on this character model I've got. It's so exaggerated, it's ridiculous. So my player was so stupid that get this, get this. He thinks that the shotgun ammo is the water chip and he takes it back to the overseer. What an idiot. Moving west we can talk with the black-haired character. I was being run by a stealth character I think. He kept trying to steal from everyone. It worked most of the time. But boy when it didn't, I've never seen so many saves and reloads in my life. Ish, give me a combat boy any day. You know, I really liked how I looked in combat armor. I never said anything before, but Ian used to, well, stare at me a lot and fall out one. It made me uncomfortable. I thought about talking to the designers about it, but I figured as long as Ian didn't cop a feel it wasn't a problem. Ian was alright looking. It's just that he really needed a haircut and a bath. Whooo, he. Moving north we can talk to the woman standing by this table. Hi, she says. So you're a descendant of the Fallout 1 hero? Well, I'm Tandy. Hi. I didn't want to just blurt it out, but your grandfather sure was cute. Huh. Ian, I think he's still in Fallout 2 somewhere. The Abbey maybe? The Abbey is a Fallout 2 location that was eventually cut from the game. It's unclear whether Ian really would have turned up there for according to the Vault Weller's memoirs, which I covered in a video here, canonically Ian was killed in the Necropolis by a super mutant with a flame thrower. Actually, she continues. I hear I'm in Fallout 2 somewhere. I don't want to go find me though. Might creep us both out. Sorry I didn't have better combat skills in Fallout 1. I guess I didn't get out much. Say, do you and Tyco still keep in touch? So there was this bug when you rescued me from the Raiders and brought me back to Dad. He'd go ballistic. Gosh, that sucked. I join you, but I'm waiting for my Dad Eradash to show up. He was supposed to join me a few revisions ago. Okay, so this is Tandy Ashi appeared as a young woman during the events of Fallout 1. In Fallout 2 of course, as we learned, while visiting NCR, she is a more wise and figure. Then moving north, we can talk with this fellow. It was damn impossible to keep Dogmead alive throughout Fallout 1, especially at the end. He just wasn't tough enough for the end game. I loved that dog. I wish he would have showed up in the end movie. There was this one player, Vince DeNargo, who had this tactic for keeping Dogmead alive at the end. He'd lock him in a force field room on every level to keep him out of combat. The annoying part was doing it on every level without the mutants wasting Dogmead. I think he pulled it off. He's talking about the Mariposa Military Base here, where we found a number on force fields. The yellow force fields didn't do any damage, so locking him in a yellow force field was a safe way to keep him from killing himself on the Red Force fields. Standing next to him, growling angrily, is one mean-looking dog. But he looks a little familiar. On a hunch, if we take off our power armor and show off our Vault 13 jumpsuit, the dog gives a low whine when it sees the Vault suit. It looks like it wants to come with us. It's Dogmead. We find him here at the cafe of broken dreams. We can leave Dogmead alone or we can say, come on boy, time to do some damage. And with that, Dogmead joins our party as a brand new companion. Then over in the corner we find a rotting ghoul. Norm is everywhere, Norm is, he says. Name's set. Yours is world of hurt. Chuckle, chuckle. NAP. Dirt. NAP Dirt. Dirt NAP. Dirt NAP. Again. Dirt NAP. Makes my shadow grow. Dirt. NAP. Dirt NAP. I rule Necropolis. This is of course set from the events of Fallout 1 who did indeed rule Necropolis. His son is Typhon. The ghoul we found in Broken Hills. The guy who asked us to go and find a, um, certain kind of rubber doll for him. Incidentally, I forgot to cover this in my video on Broken Hills. But if we give Typhon, sets sun, the rubber doll, and then we inspect his inventory several hours later, we find that the rubber doll is gone and in its place is a damaged rubber doll which looks like this. Yeah. Said had a really rather idiosyncratic way of speaking in Fallout 1, which appears to have persisted here into the cafe of Broken Dreams. But he doesn't really make much sense here. The cafe is otherwise empty. So we can talk about dog meat. Now we know why dog meat was a viable answer in the bridgekeeper's quiz. Because here in this special encounter, we find dog meat. I get the impression that the cafe of Broken Dreams is supposed to be a heaven of sorts for characters who died during the events of Fallout 1. Because canonically, in Fallout 1, dog meat did die. To none other than one of the force fields in the Mariposa military base, and set, died, and presumably these NPCs and player characters also died, and all ended up here. The only character who doesn't fit this paradigm is Tandy. Because of course we find her alive and well during the events of Fallout 2. Maybe this Tandy we find here is supposed to stand in for something else like the innocence of Tandy or the one time girlish and adventurous Tandy who died to be replaced by Tandy the President, Tandy the Administrator. This I think is further hit home by the name Cafe of Broken Dreams, which itself is a reference to the famous painting Boulevard of Broken Dreams, a painting which depicted celebrities who were dead at the time the painting was created. Elvis, Marilyn Monroe, Humphrey Bogart, James Dean, here the chosen one stumbles upon this wasteland heaven, and retrieves dog meat to bring him back to the real world. As a companion dog meat is pretty good. He's a much better companion than the Fallout 1 version of dog meat. As a dog is a less preferable option to some of the humanoid companions, as he can't wear armor and he can't wield any weapons. At max level he only has one special stat at 10 and that's agility. The next is luck, the rest are all seven are below. His armor rating is similar to a humanoid wearing a suit of metal armor mark 2 and it never gets any better than that. When fully level his max of him hit points is 168, which is pretty good for a dog, better than all of the other dog companions except for the pariah dog, and better than even some humanoins. His unarmed skill is even higher than Gorises, capping out at 101% compared to Gorises 100%. That compared to Gorises he's still a bit weaker, with fewer hit points and overall lower special stats. This is another special encounter that presents us with problems in terms of lore. We again have to decide whether or not we want to accept it at face value or choose to believe that this is just an Easter egg, a fun little piece of content by the developers that we really shouldn't take seriously. Incidentally, if at any point we attack dog meat, a man in a black leather jacket appears and says, hey mate, you screw in with me dog and he attacks. This is a reference to Mad Max, Mad Max which was the inspiration for dog meat to begin with. This is confirmed by his name. His name is Mel, and of course Mad Max was played by Mel Gibson in the movies. Our next special encounter puts us at the scene of a crash site. We see a space vehicle of some kind. It looks like it crashed here recently. The site of the shuttle reads BMO-0523-2. The USS Tories on the ground beneath the shuttle are pools of toxic radioactive goo and surrounding the shuttle are the corpses of men wearing red shirts. Indeed they're simply called dead red shirt. One of the corpses is empty, but on the other two we find a total of three hypoes. These hypoes are aid items that do heal us. They give us an immediate bonus to HP of between 75 to 100 hit points. That makes them superior to super stim packs with no side effects. The game describes them as a medical injection instrument of some kind. It looks very high tech. We don't know what it's filled with, but it appears to have only one dose left. Those will only find three at this crash site that means there are only three of them in the game. This entire special encounter is a reference to Star Trek. Fans of the show are familiar with the running gag whereby if you go with the main characters on a shuttle to the surface of a nearby planet and you happen to be wearing red shirt, you're likely to die. As these three porous holes did. The hypodermics we loot from their bodies are likely supposed to be the Star Trek hyposprae, which took on a variety of different forms across the different generations of the series. There was supposed to be a phaser that we could loot on one of these bodies, but it was ultimately cut from the game. The name Tori's could have a number of references. It's most likely a reference to Belana Tori's, a cling on human hybrid character who appeared during Star Trek Voyager, which was still playing at the time of this game's development. Our next special encounter is the Stonehead. It looks remarkably similar to the Stonehead we recall in the center of a rollo. We see a large stone monument that appears to be mumbling to itself. If we try to talk to it, what? Get your damn hands off of me. Ooh, dares approach the sacred head of the Vaultweller. It is I, we can say, the Chosen One. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. You, the Chosen One? You are no bigger than my finger. You are not the Chosen One. Yes, I am. No, you're not. Yes, I am. Uh huh. Uh huh. Uh huh. Uh huh. Twelve hours later. Uh huh. Uh huh. A-ha.. Oh really enough for this? Where you all? You have proven yourself. You are the chosen one. Take this! Now leave me! Hey thanks! Says the chosen one? Yeah whatever.. Now get outta here!ird end tourists... Wzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz. We see that the gift the stone face gave us was a monument chunk. This is a piece of the disgruntled stone monument you found out in the desert. Although many of your village would no doubt regard it as a sacred relic, somehow you suspect that you have been cheated… weighs 5 pounds. This is actually a consumable. We can eat the monument chunk. Upon ingestion, we immediately get plus 3 to strength, 3 to agility, and plus 50 to damage resistance. But after one hour we lose 6 strength, 6 agility, and 50 damage resistance. It takes 2 hours for the monument chunk to run its course and return our stats back to normal. If we try to talk to the stone head again, I already gave you a gift. Begone, idiot! I wish I could see what was behind me. There is a way to get more monument chunks. If we try to steal from the stone monument, we find three on his inventory, but as soon as we loot them, what? Steal from me, will you? The wasteland has claimed your life. And he instantly kills us. We're hit for 13,994 damage. How a monument with no hands can hit us. I'm not sure. But then again there isn't a lot that makes sense with this particular encounter. There is one more special encounter that I couldn't get to work. I have a sneaking suspicion that it wasn't implemented in the game. After all, I'm playing the retail version of the game, patched only enough for it to work on a PC, not the version of the game that restores a lot of the cut content. I spent a total of 5 hours wandering the wasteland, and it never popped up. We can, however, access this one in the base game files, though because it was unfinished, the scripting doesn't work. We arrive in a toxic waste dump. Radiation, keep out. Says the sign out front. There is no exit grid behind us. To leave, we have to pass through this toxic wasteland. And among the barrels of toxic goo, our geckos trying to kill us. If we survive the geckos in the radiation, we can pass back to the world map on the opposite side. And those are the special and scripted encounters of Fallout 2. Did you get all of them in your gameplay? What did you think of them? Let me know your thoughts in the comments section below. I publish many videos each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss my next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. On Klave. Boaster support for the on Klave and everything they stand for, with this brand new design that comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find this design on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So with interest, did you find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here? If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon. With more brand new videos.