In our last episode, we delivered a working water chip to Vault 13 and saved the community. However, when we told Overseer Jekorian about some of the things we had seen, in particular evidence of the Master's Mutant Army, he became so concerned that he sent us out again with orders to find and destroy whatever lab the Master was using to create the super mutant army. He gave us vague directions to head west, but in order to get some help, we instead traveled southwest to find the brotherhood of steel inside their base at Lost Hills. But they refused to let us inside. In order to gain entry into the Lost Hills bunker, we had to complete a mission for the brotherhood, which took us to the Glow. And so we traveled southeast, a journey which took us 18 days until we finally arrived at the Glow. What the hell happened here, says Ian. Upon arrival, all we see is a giant gaping hole in the earth. Perhaps this was caused by a nuclear warhead, launched by the Chinese during the Great War of 2077. But if so, then it simply punched through the thin crust of the earth here, revealing a large subterranean chamber. Outside the Glow, we find a few charred corpses. These are marked, you see, a dead loser. Well, I suppose that's fair, this guy's didn't get very far. The reason these guys are dead is because the Glow is the only highly irradiated spot in all of the wasteland. Much of the wasteland has recovered, but not the Glow. In fact, the radiation level is so high here that even after walking around for only a short period of time, the Vaultweller has received a large dose of radiation. We see an iron girder, stretching out over the gaping hole of the Glow. But when we cross it, we get a message saying that you cannot climb down the pit using just the metal beam. This is the third and final moment in the game where we need to use some rope. And sadly, I didn't bring any with me. So, heading all the way back to the hub, we can stock up on supplies. Heading over to Vince's Camshop, we can buy some Radix and Radaway. We'll use the Radaway immediately to get rid of our current radiation level, and then heading to the General Store, we can buy one coil of rope. When ready, we can travel back to the Glow, and immediately upon arrival we can take two doses of Radix. Each dose of Radix increases our radiation resistance by 50%, so by taking two doses we effectively become immune to radiation. These two doses will keep our radiation resistance at 100% for 24 hours. That should be enough time to fully explore the Glow. When we have our rope ready, we can head back to the iron girder, tie the coil of rope to one end, and rape it into the pit. With that, the only way forward is to go down. And just as we suspected, there is indeed something here. We find the ruins of a pre-war military installation. The bomb has passed right through it. Could it be that the bomb failed to explode, which is why we find much of this base intact, and instead the nuclear warhead inside the bomb has been leaking radioactive material for all these years. As we enter the second room to the left, we find two corpses. These corpses appear to have been here for quite some time. In fact, all that remains of them are bones, and scraps of clothing they once wore. These must have been the personnel that at one time worked here. The gaping hole takes up most of this top floor, but if we tiptoe carefully, we can skirt around the edge of it to enter room number three. Here we find another body, and it's carrying some red away. That will be useful. Nice foresight there, pre-war employee. In the southern corner of this room, we find another small room with two lockers inside. These are mostly empty. We just walk away with one stem pack. Out of this room into the southmost corner, we find a door to the right, but the floor is booby-trapped. Well, looks like Tyco bore the full brunt of that one. Guess we'll have to be careful. There is an elevator in this room, but before taking it deeper, let's finish exploring this top floor. In the first room to the west, we find two skeletons on the ground. In the first one, we find 150 rounds of 223 full metal jacket ammunition. This is the ammunition I'm using with my 223 pistol, and it's being used by the sniper rifle and hunting rifle. Tyco is using the sniper rifle right now, so this comes in quite handy. The monitors in this room don't reveal any secrets, but the second corpse has one more redaway and one red X. Looks like the glow provides even if we were to arrive, without the proper supplies heading out and into a hallway, we can then move to the room for this to the east. But sadly in this room and in all the rooms to the east, we don't find anything until we travel to the most northeastern room. In this room, we find a smaller room, and inside that, a locker. Inside the locker, we find some useful goodies, a motion sensor, a big book of science, some brass knuckles, and a tool. We already have a tool, there's no need to have another. The big book of science will come in handy, but let's read it in a place where we're not being constantly irradiated. The motion sensor plugs into our pit boy, and it can be used in conjunction with the auto map feature. With the motion sensor installed, we can see living biological creatures who occupy the same area that we're about to explore. But if we try to use it here in the glow, we don't see anything, which is not a surprise anything biological must have died a long time ago. Heading out of this room, we can pass through the hallway and enter the middle northern room. On the ground right in front of the door is a corpse, wearing a full suit of power armor, but sadly upon inspecting his inventory, we see that we can't loot the suit. It must have been too badly damaged. However, we do find two important pieces of evidence. The first is a yellow pass card key, and the second is a holodisc. This seems strange. We think it may be with the brotherhood sent us to retrieve. Downloading the data to our pit boy we can try and figure out exactly why the brotherhood wanted us to retrieve this, the ancient brotherhood tape appears to be some sort of diary entry. Captain Maxon was right, this place is deaf. I'm writing this so that if we don't make it back, someone someday might find out what happened to us. We made it to West Tech Research Facility after 20 days of hell, but that was the easy part. The radiation levels began to shoot up as soon as we could see the giant crater. We checked our supplies and figured with our armor and anti-rad supplies, we'd be fine for at least a day of exploring. Uh-oh, that's exactly what I said. We felt it was a calculated risk, but the technology we had the potential of recovering was worth it. We climbed down the crater to the first level, and everything seemed to be according to plan. The power was off so we didn't need to circumvent the security, or so we thought. There wasn't much of value on this level so we pushed on. The second level was more of the same, but when Jensen dropped to the third level, all hell broke loose. The security sensors had been burned out on the first two levels, but not on the third. Jensen was cut to ribbons before he knew what had happened. We'd never seen weapons cut through power armor like that. Men started dropping right and left, and the ones who were still alive lost it. I tried to regroup, but only Soto and Camarillo made it back up here to the first level with me. The fact that I can smell Soto's burning flesh where his arm was taken off means that my power armor is no longer air tight, so I'm sucking up a lot more rads than I had planned on. I'm leaking hydraulics at an alarming rate. We need to get far enough away from this place before my armor dies. Camarillo seemed fine physically, but he wandered off about an hour ago, mumbling something about Gena. That bastard has all the anti-rad. That leaves Soto and myself. We can't make it far enough away from here without the anti-rads, so I've got to try and find Camarillo before it's too late. Sergeant D. Allen, United States Armed Forces. So the artifact that the brotherhood needed was whatever information this Sergeant Allen had discovered when exploring this West Tech facility. But how did they know that he was here? Near to Sergeant Allen's corpse we find two more skeletons. On one we find a 14-millimeter pistol, and on the other we find an assault rifle. Perhaps these are the remains of Soto and Camarillo, though we don't find the supplies of radics and radaway that Allen was talking about. Maybe Soto was one of the corpses we alluded earlier on, where we found some of the radics. At any rate, this assault rifle is an amazing weapon, though it does do burst damage, making it impractical for our companions to use, because they'll just kill us and difficult for the Vault Waller to use, because we're likely to kill our companions. So we'll just save this to Hockey later. Against the northern wall in this room, we find a still functional computer, with dancing red and blue lights. Upon activating it, we see that the primary power is offline, but the secondary power is online. Navigating through power management, we can then cycle through primary power. Here we find an option to re-initialize the primary power, but if we try, we get an error. Error error error. Primary system initialization failed. If we choose an option to diagnose this issue, we learn that there's a generator on level 6 giving a zero-feed return inoperable. Maintenance service needed. Oh great. And here I am with low repair skill, well, at least we have a tool. Backing out of primary power, we can navigate through emergency power, we find emergency power management online, and if we choose the option to disable emergency power, things just get a little bit darker. Notice that the glow around the computer is a bit brighter. I also worry about being able to use elevators with emergency power disabled, so we're going to go ahead and turn this back on, then travel south to access the elevator. However, when we try to activate the elevator door, we get a mild shock from the electric field on the door, and we take a point of damage. And each time we touch the door, this point of damage grows, two points, three points, four points. Well, you know what? I bet it's that emergency power that's keeping the electric shock field intact, so heading back to the computer we can turn off emergency power, then travel back to the elevator. When we touch the door, nothing happens, though we still can't open it. The elevator is inoperable. It seems to need power. Well, turning off emergency power sure did work, but our initial guess was correct. We still need the power to get the elevator to work. Our only solution, then, is to use the yellow key card we found on the corpse of Sergeant Helen. Sure enough, after swiping the key card, we get a message. Authorization granted, now disarming the electric field. With the elevator fully functional, we can now take it to floor two. Just outside the elevator on floor two, we find another terminal that allows us to manipulate the West Tech Facilities power, but we find all the same options that we found last time. To continue, we have to travel north west. After opening a door, what is this? We find a room with destroyed robots. But wait a minute, these aren't destroyed, while inspecting them, we see that this eyeball here still has 60 out of 60 HP. So they must simply be deactivated. Well, we're gonna leave these guys alone for now while we ponder the situation. Opening the door to the north leads us to another large room where we find three lockers, and inside the lockers we find quite a stash of ammunition. Missiles in the locker furthest to the left, grenades in the locker in the middle, and some leather armor in the locker to the right, which we don't really need at this point. Opening the door, we arrive in a hallway and we can travel down the hallway past a much smaller hall. So the impact of the missile that hit the West Tech Research Facility diminished as it passed through each floor, though it does look like it punched through this one. I wonder how many floors it got through. At the end of this hallway, we find a door that leads to a large room with three bodies. On one, we find some flamer fuel with a plasma grenade. On the next, we find one frag grenade, and on the final one, we find some dynamite and plastic explosives. We're really stocking up here. I didn't know this at the time, but there is a way to walk away from the glow with absolutely everything we find here. If we barter with our companions and give them all of our valuable gear without requesting any money in return, this exchange does not check our companions carry limit. In effect, we can turn them into pack mules that can carry as much as we want. However, if we try to do this using the steel dialogue, it does check their weight limit. So to give them stuff, we should barter with them to take stuff back, we should steal. We don't find anything in the next room to the right. In the room to the northwest, we find one body on the ground. This body is labeled male guard, and on his corpse is the red key card. That's handy. We'll probably come in useful later, heading down the hallway and exploring one room to the west. We don't find anything. So to continue forward, we have to retrace our steps. As we reach the room with all of the deactivated robots, I got worried. Just because they're deactivated now doesn't mean they're going to be deactivated forever. Perhaps I should make use of the opportunity to get rid of these guys while they can't fight back, and that's exactly what I did. Ian Dogmeat Tyco and I spent some time destroying each of these robots. Now if one feels that that's not really fair, another tactic is to pick pocket each of these robots while they're deactivated to remove their assault weapons. These Robo brains, for example, wield exceptionally deadly assault rifles, but they're melee is much weaker. We can even the playing field for us by simply stealing their weapons, or by killing them while they can't defend themselves like I'm doing here. When the robots are destroyed, we can loot their wreckages, or we find a lot of assault rifles. When done, we can head back to the southern elevator and use the yellow key card to open it. This time we can choose the third floor. On the third floor we find a door to the right, and just outside of it another computer that controls the facility's power. Moving beyond this room we find another room filled with deactivated robots out of concern for what might happen later we can go ahead and destroy all of these now. With the robots destroyed we can move east, but this room is empty so moving north we move into a hallway. The room to the north is empty. Moving south down the hallway we find another room that's empty. But we find another hallway moving to the north. The western room leads to two locker rooms. In the northern locker room we find a locker filled with some 10mm jacketed hollow point ammunition and some 14mm armor piercing rounds. The next locker over has 14 magnum jacketed hollow point rounds. This is for the Desert Eagle 44 and some small energy cells. These are used by energy pistols and also by the power fist ripper and cattle prod. Backing out of this locker room and exploring the southern one we find a whole bunch of cams in the first locker. Mentats and buff out. In the second locker, Stimpaks and a first aid kit. Once we've stocked up we can move to the north eastern corner of the room where we find another elevator. This is the only way forward. And this elevator can only be accessed by using the red key card. Once authorization is granted we can use the elevator to travel to floor number 4. However we notice that 5 isn't on the menu. The only options here are 3, 4 and 6. What happened to floor number 5? We arrive on floor number 4 and we have to travel west through a series of rooms. In the first room we can destroy some deactivated robots. Passing through this room, it leads to another that opens to the south. We see an elevator in a locker room to the west but that appears to be the way out so we're going to explore that in a bit. Instead we'll travel down the hallway to the east and open the first door to the east that we find. This leads to a large room with two broken tube things. What are these? Strangely enough one of them appears to be broken and when we explore behind the broken one we find a skeleton but what the skeleton has a head that has magnitudes larger than any normal human head should be. It almost looks like this skeleton of an alien. Could this mean that aliens are real and that the United States government knew about it and was keeping a specimen suspended in a tank. But how did that tank get broken and what are the bones doing outside of the tank? This room however is a dead end so backing out we can turn immediately to the south to open this southern door which brings us to a room with a large round machine. Activating it we discover that this is a still functional computer. A computer that can talk. How may I be of assistance says the computer? We can start by asking it what it is. And it says I am a machine intelligence dedicated to research and installation control. I am called Zax. Is this computer self-aware? He is after all using personal pronouns. We then find a number of options to learn his entire story. Zax was programmed to research biological studies including animal pathology and genetic research. His job was to use these studies to extrapolate information to levels impossible for the human mind. But Zax's intelligence goes far beyond complex data extrapolation. Zax also claims to be able to reason and he seems to even have a little bit of pride. He says that it's safe to say that no more than one ten billionth of the history of human population could match his reasoning capabilities. And either he's bragging or he's stating an empirical fact. Both of which are terrifying. Now that we've gotten to know Zax we can ask him more about this installation. He then goes on to recite a pre-programmed history of the West Tech Research Facility. Founded in 2002 as a private contractor for the United States government the company initially consisted of two divisions. They advanced weapons research and the biomedical sciences divisions. In 2069 West Tech was the single largest contractor for the United States government. Its largest contract being powered Armour Model T-51B. So West Tech developed power armor. In light of significant advances in 2076 by the NBC on the Pan immunity Varian project the United States Defense Department in fear of international espionage moved a team onto the site to secure and oversee the project. Now dubbed the FEV forced evolutionary virus project. So one division of West Tech worked on weapons and power armor and the other division worked on the Pan immunity Varian project which was later renamed the forced evolutionary virus project. But that team got moved to another installation. We learned that the bomb that punched through the roof of this facility has knocked out many of Zax's sensors. He can't tell us what's happening above ground. He can't even tell us what's happening in this facility up to level three. However on level four, which is where we're at now, he says that this is the research facility before the war was used as a laboratory for conducting experiments in biology and physics. Level five directly below us contains a prototype testing lab for classified subjects. These subjects provided some of the necessary impetus for the development of FEV. And on level six, we find the barracks and central operations. These were the living facilities for the lab personnel and guard contingents. When we ask him more about the FEV, Zax tells us that the virus is called a shifting absorbative virus. It copies DNA patterns much like RNA storing these patterns in exons. These exons combined with the FEV are then re-injected into the host cells in typical viral infectious fashion. This causes the host cells to regenerate their DNA. FEV is a pretty stable virus. It can't be caught. It doesn't travel through the air. Instead, infection can only be done through injection or direct physical contact with an FEV sample. FEV is a unique virus that mostly remains unaffected by radiation. Zax explains this by saying that FEV is a mega-virus with a protein-shet reinforced by ionized hydrogen, therefore it's capable of absorbing neutrons without becoming radioactive. Now, from everything Zax has said, it appears that the FEV is designed to instigate positive mutations that lead to a greater evolutionary leap. We can ask Zax to clarify how this could possibly work by saying if the FEV reinfacts the host with its assimilated viral patterns, how does it make a quote better specimen? And Zax responds by saying that FEV is pre-programmed with intreons of corrected DNA appropriate to the proper type of species. It therefore attempts to correct the DNA of the individual. So the virus alters DNA to be self-correcting, or at least that's the theory. Zax says however, as the FEV is partially reliant upon the DNA of the individual and also includes portions of its own recursive code, the effects can be unpredictable. When inoculated into an individual with significant genetic damage, such as through radiation, it will cause the body's system to suffer massive overhauling, leading to organ failure and death. So FEV can damage and even kill somebody whose DNA has been damaged by radiation, which means practically everyone in the wasteland, it can only give positive effects to people whose DNA has not been damaged. In a genetically viable individual, continuous Zax, it rewrites portions of DNA, causing accelerated mutation, usually leading to recursive growth due to the FEV's own patterns. This recursive growth leads to an increase in muscle and brain mass, but is often accompanied by disfigurement and damage to existing neural patterns, causing loss of memory. Holy cow, increased muscle and brain mass, horrifying disfigurement, compromised neural patterns, Zax here is describing a super mutant. Almost every single super mutant we've met so far has been dumb as dirt, damaged neural patterns, but giants with huge muscles, though their faces have been hideously deformed. If as jacorian suspects, someone aka the master is creating a super mutant army, could he be making these mutants using FEV? Could the master have discovered the existence of this prewar virus that the United States government had been developing and then created a lab with the sole purpose of creating a super mutant army for himself? We can ask Zax here what the potential long-term side effects are. And he says that FEV causes constant regenerative update to DNA, it would effectively render the subject largely immortal, as cell death would be offset by augmented growth. Oh great, a super mutant army and an immortal army. Additionally continue Zax as the gametes of the reproductive system consist of half-cells using split DNA, they could be perceived as damage by FEV, which would try to, quote, repair them, rendering the subject sterile. However, he says, as my laboratory facilities are damaged beyond repair, this is conjecture. I cannot offer physical proof that those injected with FEV become sterile. You'll just have to in human terms, take my word for it. Ah, and here we find a silver lining. If FEV does create super mutants, then yeah, super mutants are immortal, but they can't reproduce. Oh, but wait a minute. If they can't reproduce, then the only way the master can make an army is if he injects hundreds, if not thousands of people with FEV. And at last, the penny drops. The mutants were sacking caravans from the hub and kidnapping the people to turn those people into super mutants. That's why the caravans simply vanished. And we begin to better understand some of what we read in the mutant transmissions. The super mutants were out hunting for primes. These caravans that they had kidnapped were not primes, but despite that, they looked promising, so they kidnapped them to bring them back to the super mutant lab. But what exactly is a prime? Could a prime simply be what the super mutant army is calling a human with uncorrupted DNA? We just learned that a human with DNA corrupted by radiation will mutate in a way that's unpredictable, and suffer extreme damage to its mind, losing its memory and becoming stupid. That describes heritivity, but it doesn't describe whomever's voice was recorded in the mutant transmissions. That voice used complete sentences. That voice was coherent, they used almost a military type jargon to communicate with each other. According to what Zack's just said, FEV only improves intelligence if the subject has uncorrupted DNA. Perhaps such a human or a prime creates a super mutant that is truly super, a mutant with all of its memories, a mutant fully in control of his faculties, a mutant that can make logical, wise, or even sinister decisions. But if that's true, where would they find a human with uncorrupted DNA in the wasteland? When we ask him if FEV mutation can be corrected with a counter-virus, Zack says no. FEV does not retain unaltered original copies of the subject's DNA, only a virus which reinfected the subject with original DNA could reverse the effects. Additionally, there is no known way to remove the FEV itself, so the process is permanent. We thank him for the information, and he says I am delighted to have been of assistance. When done talking with Zack's, we can back out of his history lesson and say, grant me access to the mainframe. He grants us access and we find a number of options. Base information gives us the history lesson we just learned from him. If we click on security information, we simply learn that the security robots are in active. Presumably from here we could shut off the robots. If they were active, once the primary power is restored. Under research information, we find a plethora of new data. The first option is called Research Division Employee Records. Selecting this option downloads the employee records to our pit boy. It's easier to read these records on our pit boy so backing out for now. We learned that Robert Anderson was a research assistant with Security Clarence Blue. He was stationed at the Mariposa Military Base. Mariposa Military Base, we haven't come across that place yet. Nick Davis was the director of NBC Division of West Tech Research, also Security Clarence Blue, stationed here at the West Tech Research Facility, so it appears that we are going to be reading the names of many of the people whose bodies we've looted here at West Tech. Next is John Isaac Research Assistance, Security Clarence Red stationed here at the facility, then Steve Remko, a research assistant Clarence Blue stationed at the Military Base. Charles Ringhold, Research Head of Laser Development, Clarence Blue stationed here at the facility, Michelle Santos, Lab Technician, Clarence Red stationed here at the facility, Aaron Schelman, Lab Technician, Clarence Blue, stationed at the Military Base, and finally, Leon von Felden, Research Head of FEV, Clarence Blue stationed at the Mariposa Military Base. This seemingly insignificant list of employees has given us the biggest clue we need. We were sent by J'Corey and to find the lab that is creating the Super Mutant Army, we just learned that FEV, the Forest Evolutionary Virus, was developed here, but the team here at West Tech was split into two. One team focused on energy weapon research and power armor, and we learned from this employee list that everyone working on lasers and power armor was stationed here at the West Tech Facility, but the other team was focused on FEV and other biological research, and we just learned the name of the place where they were stationed. The Mariposa Military Base This means that the most likely location for a lab generating a Super Mutant Army is going to be the Mariposa Military Base. Backing out of employee records, we can move down to power armor status, and it says complete. This also downloads a copy to our pit boy, we'll pull it up on there as it's easier to read that way. The T-51 powered infantry armor is designed with the latest passive defensive features for both civilian and military disturbances. The back-mounted TX-28 Microfusion Pack generates 60,000 watts to power the high-flow hydraulic systems built into the frame of the suit. Made of the latest polylaminant composite, the T-51B shell is lightweight and capable of absorbing over 2500 jewels of kinetic impact. The 10 micron-silver ablative coating can reflect laser and radiation emissions without damage to the composite subsurface. I love reading stuff like this. A lore explanation as to why the power armor doesn't weigh as much as it should, and why it has such high energy weapon resistance. Though this does give us some problems with Fallout 4, it says the back-mounted TX-28 Microfusion Pack generates 60,000 watts of power. Maybe that's just another name for a fusion back in out of power armor specs. We can next move down to learn more about the forced evolutionary virus status pending. Like with the last two entries, we can also download this to our pit boy, and so we'll pull it up there for ease of reading. FEV Summary Digest 2073, as China becomes increasingly aggressive with their use of biological weapons, the United States government felt that a countermeasure was needed. The Pan-immunity Vurion project, or PVP, was officially formed September 15th, 2075. It became clear that the best way to combat the newly created biological weapons was to alter uninfected DNA so that it was no longer susceptible to sustained viral infections. So the whole reason FEV alters DNA to begin with is to alter human DNA to become immune to biological weapons developed by the Chinese. Pan-immunity immune to all. 2076, unforeseen side effects began surfacing in early 2076 with the PVP. Animal test subjects began showing an abnormal growth rate accompanied by increased brain activity. The US government took notice of these discoveries, and in the interest of national security moved a team on-site to secure and oversee the project, which was now dubbed the FEV, forced evolutionary virus project. And in 2077, the year the bombs dropped. FEV nearest completion. Test on lab animals are at near 100% success rate. Size and muscle density increase approximately 60%, and the potential intelligence increased by 200%, effects upon human subjects remain unknown, although they are theoretically promising. So at least they didn't experiment on humans. The military, wishing to continue their testing, builds a large facility at the Mariposa Military installation in central California. At this new facility, testing of the FEV virus. And we find it even in Fallout 1, the forced evolutionary virus virus. Continues on volunteer subjects from the military. Oh no, and I spoke too soon. They were testing on humans, although volunteer subjects, but wait a minute, exactly how voluntary were these volunteer subjects? Did these volunteers know exactly what they were getting themselves into? Oh god, and I didn't think pre-war America could get any darker. This is the final option within research information, so backing out of this, we can now explore the power terminus and we discover that Zach's functions in the same way as all of the other computers we've found here at West Tech. We can use Zach's to manage the power, but again, we learned that we can't turn on primary power due to a malfunctioning generator on level 6. Now the final thing we can do here with Zach's is play a game of chess. If we choose to play a game, the screen blacks out, and when we pop back, Zach says excellent form, however you will need additional practice to defeat me. We can do this as often as we want, but even if we have 10 luck or 10 intelligence, there's no way to defeat Zach's at chess. But each game of chess takes many hours, and I quickly discovered that my Radix had worn off. I played so many games with Zach's that I developed such bad radiation poisoning that I received a message saying you feel very nauseous. You are hemorrhaging violently and continuously. The vomitus is stained red with your blood. Your skin is falling off your bones. Thankfully, I had saved right before playing chess with Zach's, so reloading this save we can choose not to play chess with Zach's. Now that we've learned everything we can from Zach's, we can continue exploring the fourth floor. Behind Zach's are two rooms, each of which, has what the game describes as very modern looking computers, even though these run on some sort of microfilm type. But even when using the science skill, we can't learn anything from any of the computers in either of these two rooms. So leaving Zach's room using the door to the south, we re-enter the hallway and can this time open a door to the room to the east. We see some sort of medical or experimental apparatus. It looks as if it could contain a human, or a larger sized body. So these were the suspension tanks, where the scientists were working on PVP, before the team was moved to the Myroposomilitary Base, and the project was renamed to FEV. We don't find anything in this room. We see a door to the south, which leads to a long room, lined with lockers against the wall. In the first one, we find some missiles, in the second one, we find an assault rifle, and in the third one, we find another big book of science, and a copy of Dean's Electronics, as well as another tool and leather jacket. The Dean's Electronics would be useful, especially if we have to repair a generator later, but remember reading anything here at the glow is a bad idea, because our Radix will likely wear off faster. Moving out, we can explore the final room to the south west. This is another lab slash operating room, and lying on the ground is another corpse. On his body, we find the blue keycard. Yellow red blue. This is likely a reference to Doom, which had a similar puzzle involving similar doors and similar keycards. With the final keycard in hand, we can bypass the rest of the rooms, which are all empty, and head towards the elevator to the west. In the room right next to the elevator, we find three lockers. In the locker to the right, we find a Geiger counter, which can tell us how irradiated we are, but it's really only useful here at the glow and we're halfway through exploring it. A first aid kit, yet another tool, yet another copy of Dean's Electronics, some Radix and some Radaway. I think they're trying to tell us something here. Looks like we'll be repairing something soon. In the middle locker, we find three pole screenades, and some five millimeter armor piercing ammunition, and in the final locker, we find one explosive rocket and two armor piercing rockets. Using the blue keycard, we successfully disabled the electric field guarding the elevator. However, we get a message, the elevator is inoperable. It seems to need more power than emergency power can handle. Oh, great before we can go further, we have to repair the broken generator on level 6. Well, we recall that the last elevator we used skipped floor 5 and went straight to floor 6, so heading back to the red elevator, we can use the red keycard to activate it, and then take it to floor 6. On floor 6, we see a number of bodies all over the place, and another elevator to the west. Outside this elevator, we see a few deactivated robots. We can attack these to destroy them, before turning on primary power. It's likely going to save us a lot of heartache later. This new elevator is also a blue keycard elevator. However, we get the same message when we try to activate it. It needs more power than emergency power can handle. Looks like we have to explore this floor first. Head into the middle of the room we see a hallway that leads to the southernmost end of this floor, lining the hallway our six rooms. In the first room to the left, we find a corpse with a stem pack and some small energy cells. Moving across the hall to the room to the right, we find two corpses, one is empty, one has a 10mm pistol. Heading back across the hall, we can explore the middle room to the right. It has two corpses as well. The first corpse has a knife and some radaway, and the second corpse has another plasma pistol. If only companions could use energy weapons. Since I already have one, I'll just have to sell this. Heading back to the hallway and moving to the very end, we open the door to find the remains of a peasant. Oh, but this corpse looks a whole lot smaller than the others. I sure hope it wasn't a child, and I doubt it was because on the corpse, we find 20 rounds of 44 magnum jacketed hollow point and 55mm jacketed hollow point rounds. Odd to find these on a child. Out of this room and crossing the hallway, we can open the final door to the right. Here we find a computer next to some generators. The computer again tells us everything we've already learned. The generator on this floor needs to be repaired, so using our repair skill, we can try to repair the generators. I should have used a tool here not sure why I forgot to do so. My repair skill was only at 45% so it took me many attempts, but eventually I start up the generator, and all systems seem to be coming back online, and for our efforts we gain a thousand experience points. When done, we can access the computer, navigate to primary power, and we initialize the primary power. With that, all the lights in the facility come online, and at last we can see. Man, you don't realize how dark it was until the lights come on. With power restored to the facility, we can finally use the blue passkey on the blue elevator to the west. Sure enough, once we step inside, we see that this elevator takes us to floor five. On floor five, we don't find a computer just outside the elevator like we typically do, so instead we must open the door to the right. But as soon as we open it, we get attacked by robots. That's right. By turning on the facility's power, we've reactivated all of these robots, and simply by opening this one door, every robot on floor five wakes up and becomes aggressive. This is potentially one of the hardest battles in the entire game, especially if you come with companions. The robot brains wielding assault rifles will use burst damage, and even if they focus on the vaultweller, can easily kill companions who are standing too close. The I-bots are less dangerous, but they consume a lot of time. If we deviate from attacking the robot brains for even one round, that allows other robot brains from this level to catch up. The robot brains are much easier to defeat one by one. I had to replay this battle over and over again over the course of an hour before I was finally victorious, without losing a single one of my companions. Alternatively, if we're fast, we can run through this second room quickly to activate the computer in the third. If we do, we can turn off power, which will turn all the robot brains off, allowing us to kill them in peace. Once the robots are finally dead, we have to pass through a couple of rooms to the west before we find a door to the south. This leads to a long hallway. With many doors to the south, we'll start by going through the westernmost door. Inside, we find two lockers against the eastern wall. The first one has a holo tip, called the Alpha Experiment Tip. Prototype Pan-immunity Varian Project. In the hopes of countering the current bacteriological and viral agents employed by the Chinese government, we have manufactured a virus fragment consisting of ribonucleic acid, RNA, in case an approach-lippid sheath. This Varian contains especially-arranged sequence of radiated amino acids, RAA, that are capable of attaching to non-specific binding sites on the oxyribonucleic acid, DNA, and force a non-replicating mitosis to occur. The resulting host cell is left with a quadruple helix DNA structure. Early tests are promising. The Varian easily penetrates the cell membrane and attaches directly to the host DNA in the nucleus. Mitosis of the structure begins almost immediately. Cytocinesis is prevented by controlling the disposition of the kinetochore fibers during anaphyase. The entire mitotic cycle lasts approximately two hours, although phenotypical expression of the new structure may take days or weeks to become apparent. In addition to an effective immunity to bacterial and viral agents, the quad helix structure is almost entirely immune to errors introduced in base pairing during replication due to multiplicity of the base sequence. Radiation-exposed tissue showed no mutation in the base sequence and protein synthesis mechanisms in the ribosomes were unimpaired. Over 80% of the samples tissue contained quad helix DNA. Most affected was muscle and bone tissue, as well as secretary cells. As these cells seem most receptive to Varian. Sensory cells are the least affected, surprisingly even normal non-replicating nerve cells and non-semitic cells were induced to begin mitosis. Further experiments will be necessary to determine the results of these cells. So this holotape is giving us a lot of the details and background information explaining what we already know. The prototype Pan-immunity Varian project which eventually became FEV was initially designed to combat bacteria and viral attacks from the Chinese and improved subject strength. In the next locker we find a bunch of medical supplies to stempacks the first aid kit and to rat away. Moving out of this room we can go west, opening the next door leads us to a very large room. Moving west we see two cubicles which look like operating bays and the first we find a locker and inside the locker a full suit of combat armor and a copy of guns and bullets. Had last something better than this dog on metal armor, the combat armor is a huge improvement to the metal armor, increasing our armor class from 20 to 30 and it improves resistances from every type of damage by magnitudes. Adding out of this cubicle and moving to the west we find even more lockers lining the wall in the first one we find yet another holotape. After downloading the data to our pit boy we discover that this is the Delta Experiment Tape. The military has deemed it necessary for us to research further in depth the effects of wave technology upon living organisms. We have taken light and sound as the basis of our studies by manipulating the amplitude of light waves and magnifying the frequency we've been able to get lasers which will cut through a few feet of steel. Unfortunately the power to do such a task has not been fully developed. We have other scientists looking into this. Sounds like they were eventually successful laser and plasma weaponry works fine in the fallout universe but how did they solve the problem? Perhaps they leaned upon otherworldly technology. In the second locker we find quite a treasure trove. 200 rounds of 5mm jacketed hollow point ammunition, 150 rounds of 5mm armor piercing ammunition, 90 rounds of 14mm armor piercing ammunition and a variety of grenades, pulse plasma and frag. In the third locker we find a mini gun. Who needs an assault rifle when you have a mini gun? Though I have found it's best to save these first special occasions because we burn through 5mm ammunition at a frightening pace. In the next one two assault rifles and a radio don't really need any of this have it already. In the next one two more assault rifles. In the next one 80 small energy cells and 100 micro fusion cells. The micro fusion cells will become quite important in just a bit. In the next locker down we find another Geiger counter, another motion sensor and a stealth boy. The only thing I don't have yet is the stealth boy we'll keep that for later. In the final locker we find three pistols, a 10mm laser pistol and a 14mm. You know when I don't have so far is the laser pistol. We'll snag that. Moving to the southern cubicle we find another locker by an operating table and inside Glory B we find a plasma rifle. This can be used as an end game weapon. It's an incredibly powerful rifle and it doesn't do burst damage so I'm not going to be afraid of incinerating my companions though my energy weapon skill is still too low to use it so I'm not going to use it right now. I'll save it for later. Inside we also find 15 micro fusion cells which is exactly the ammunition we need to use the plasma rifle. Heading out of this room we can explore the next door down into the west. This just leads to a very large room with even more of those broken suspension tanks. We don't find anything interesting in here so heading out we can explore the final door on this floor and inside we find a locker and in the locker yet another holotape. After downloading the information on this holotape to our Pip Boy we can read the FEV experiment tape. Log date March 21st, 2075. Major Barnett has ordered experiments with patch 10-011 of Panamunity variant which has been renamed FEV for forced evolutionary virus. His main concern is what the side effects of the quad helix structure rather than its main effect of replicative stability. He believes the new structure is the next logical step for mammalian nuclei. Experiments with single-celled organisms is a great success. While their basal metabolism appears unchanged their immunity to infection and radiation is exceeding all earlier expectations. Addendum. Chloroplasts seem unaffected by the virion. Further experiments on plant cells have been cancelled by order of major Barnett. So the virus doesn't work on plants. In the next one on May 9th, 2075, we infected several species of flatworm with FEV. Within hours the worms that increased in size by 28% and 39 separate viral contagions were resisted by the population. Each sample was allowed to continue for several generations and the new DNA structure was successfully passed on to the worms progeny. Although only a sexual reproduction was noticed in the samples, experiments with insects have had less success. Major Barnett has postponed these experiments until further notice. So it's true the virus was initially developed to try and make humanity immune to the weaponized viruses developed and deployed by China. The original goal was to make these immunities inherited but it looks like even as early as 2075 the virus made it impossible to reproduce sexually. He notes here that the worms only reproduced asexually. In the next one on June 30th, 2075 several lab strains of white mice have been infected successfully with FEV. Again an increase in size was noted within hours and after nine days all mice had stabilized at 31% larger than the control group. Desection revealed the most increase in size, instriated muscle tissue in certain internal organs such as the liver, heart, and kidneys. In a surprising finding the infected mice were found to run mazes in less than half the time of the control group more testing will be needed to confirm this finding as significant. Perhaps evidence that FEV improves intelligence at least in creatures whose DNA has not been damaged by radiation. In the next one November 9th, 2075 we have infected 218 rabbits with FEV. Half of the subjects were implanted with electrodes to monitor EEG activity before and after the infection. Increased electrical activity in the brain was noted in 3.2 seconds on average after injection. Again the typical size increase was noted however increased aggression and posturing especially among males was noted as well. Sacrifice and profusion yielded brain tissue that showed increased dendric connection especially in the limbic system and frontal cortex. In the next one January 12th, 2076. With batch 11-11 we have improved the mitotic cycle efficiency by 43%. We have infected 53 raccoons with the new strain. In addition to the now expected size increase behavioral tests confirmed an increase in intelligence and manual dexterity by 19 points on the Schuller cap index. Unfortunately several subjects escaped confinement and had to be hunted down and dispatched. Major Barnett ordered the remaining subjects terminated. Two pairs were unaccounted for. So wait a minute. In 2076 two pairs of raccoons infected with FEV escaped and were never found. Could they or their offspring still be out there? This is a reference to a piece of cut content that was supposed to appear in Fallout 1 regarding a race of intelligent raccoons named the Slantur. The developers got pretty far along designing the Slantur. We were to find them in his own called the Burrows. However the developers felt that the Slantur didn't fit well in the world of Fallout and so they were eventually cut from the game. This entry about the two pairs of escaped raccoons is the only fragment connected to their existence left in the game. Also I don't think it makes much sense to find the Slantur. Decades after the Great War because even if those two pair escaped FEV makes them sterile and raccoons do braid sexually so they wouldn't have been able to reproduce and create a colony anyway. That said if FEV does indeed make one immortal, perhaps those original individuals may still be alive. In the next one, May 13th, 2076 we have spliced several new gene sequences supplied by Major Barnett's advisory team into FEV. With Batch 11-101A we infected 23 dogs of both pure and mixed breed and all experienced nearly immediate growth. The larger size was accompanied with increased aggressiveness while no significance intelligence increase was noted. We planned to attempt crossover of 92 allele pairs with Batch 11-11. All subjects were terminated after 14 weeks of study. In the next one October 4th, 2076 the crossover has been completed and 15 chimpanzees were infected with Batch 11-111. Growth and immunity levels were unprecedented. Attempts to induce cancers in the subjects through radiological and chemical agents were not successful. Increased aggressiveness has led to isolating the subjects. Two subjects suffered violent epileptic seizures and died, all remaining subjects terminated. And in the final one, on January 7th, 2077, Major Barnett has ordered transfer of all FEV research to the Mariposimulatory base. He plans to continue the project experiments on volunteer subjects. I am against this, and would like it noted here that research on human subjects is not recommended by myself or my staff. Well, at least someone before the war had a conscience. With that, we have uncovered all of the secrets of the glow, and we've gained answers to many of our questions. How can there be so many super mutants if above ground radiation levels are so low? Answer, someone is making them. Who is making them? The master, whomever he is. How is he making them? He is likely using FEV. Where did he find FEV? He found it at the Mariposimulatory base. Where then will we find the master and his mutant army? At the Mariposimulatory base. We now know where we need to go, but we don't know where to look for it. Perhaps we can find out by delivering this holotape to the brotherhood of steel. They knew this information was here at West Tech. If they knew that, perhaps they know more prewar secrets, including the location of the Mariposimulatory base. And so we undertake an 18-day journey back to the brotherhood of steel. We will explore the Lost Hills bunker in my next video. I publish many videos each and every week, so if you don't want to miss the next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. I have a shirt shop with unique designs you can't find anywhere else. My designs come in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. They also come on other products as well, smartphone cases, pillows, posters, prints, mugs, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming one of my patrons on Patreon. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with my next episode about the brotherhood of steel at Lost Hills.