In our last episode, we destroyed the print when we did so because the Brotherhood attacked railroad headquarters. We learned about the impending Brotherhood attack from a synth at the Institute, but while we were at the Institute, just after we led our first direct-trick meeting, we learned that Father wanted to speak with us. It's here that we begin the quest end of the line, Father orders us to destroy the railroad. And this plays out much the same way it does when we did this for the Institute. However, when we did this for the Institute, the railroad was noticeably cool towards us. We've heard some very disturbing things about you. And that's because after infiltrating the Institute, we didn't choose to work with them. However, during this railroad playthrough, we've been doing nothing but working with them. So betraying them at this point in the story is quite a different thing. Instead of warning them that the Brotherhood was about to attack, we could head to railroad headquarters to fulfill Father's wishes. And if we do, does the amount of notices that we're acting a little different? Living on your mind? You don't look so good. I don't know why you'd ask. Because I have a knack for knowing when things are about to go wrong. And I'm wondering if you have something you'd like to tell me. Nothing. Everything's fine. If you say so. Do you trust me? Trust is a scarce commodity in our organization. Let me answer you like this. I have put our future and the future of all synths. In your hands, I didn't do that lightly. And you haven't given me a reason to regret that decision. The Institute has ordered me to kill you. All of you. I guess they consider us a real threat after all. I suppose we should be flattered. So really, the question is, what are you going to do about it? How do I deal with this, Desdemona? Yeah, kind of puts a crimp and infiltrating the Institute, doesn't it? Give me a straight answer first. Are you still on our side? You're alive, so what do you think? Go easy, Des. This is a totally messed up situation. I think you didn't answer the question. At this point, we have two choices. We could. Even at this point. But Tray, the railroad. I'm afraid you all have to die. Des, this wasn't me. What the fuck? Huh. Deacon vouched for you. I knew I shouldn't have trusted him. Or you. We're not going down without a fight. Shit, we got to. Which case, everyone in the railroad turns hostile. Deacon, our companion, turns against us. We now have to gun down everyone here alone. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Get off. Just stay away from me. Ow. Get off. It's only a matter of time. Got it. Now. We of course fail any railroad quests we have open. And we can now move on to side with the Institute. Or instead we can choose to protect the railroad. Of course I'm not going to go through with it. So how do I deal with it? Well, that's a relief. It's unfortunate things have progressed so fast. You need to stall them by time anyway you can and step up your operation with Patriot. That's all we can do. Good luck. But we didn't go to father after the last director at meeting. Instead we caught word of the surprise brotherhood attack. We defended railroad headquarters and we destroyed the Pridwin. Tinker Tom set us down at Nordhagen Beach and then flew off to stash the vertebrae. We now head back to railroad headquarters and check in with Desdemona to learn what our next step is. I thought I thought by calling Red Glare I'd lose more good people. Comrades, thank you for keeping them and yourself safe. Is the church safe now? With the Pridwin destroyed, the brotherhood survivors will leave the Commonwealth. On foot. Red Glare was insane. You almost got us killed. What option did I have? Run and hide? If we did that we'd have to shell your plans with C-114 and we'd never get another chance at that. We still lost too many people. Without you though, it would have been far worse. You're welcome. But we're not out of the woods yet. If the brotherhood managed to find us, you can bet your ass the SRB is not far behind. We've run out of time. Our next step is to attack the Institute. You say it that way and suddenly I'm nervous. You're one of a kind. You know that, right? Okay. So here's the plan. I have some things to do first. Understood. Just don't take too long. I'm ready. Let's do it. Once I get in, what's the plan? Go back inside the Institute and secure the relay. If the instant you do the Institute and the SRB will mobilize. So teleport us in quickly. We join forces with C-114 and the Rebel since. Then together we fight our way to the fusion reactor. What about rescuing the Sins? That's not your job. We've got people assigned to maintain control of the relay room and teleport since out nonstop. We need our best people doing the tricky part of the operation. So that means you. How do I secure the relay room? Violently I'm afraid. It's essential that you take it quickly. Every moment we wait is another moment the Institute has to react. Even with the rebels, I don't think we're a match for what they can throw at us. Surprise should be total. And with so many synths rebelling, they should be disorganized. But really, it's a now or never proposition. We're going to pull this off. Or die trying. We'll be waiting. So that's it. That's the plan. We're just going to waltz up to the relay room, kill everybody, and relay in the railroad. Well, we can't do this in brotherhood fatigue. So changing back into our railroad heavy jacket, we can relay to the Institute and take the elevator all the way up to the relay room. And knowingly, we find it crowded and not just with synths, with scientists too. And they all have to die. For a moment there I had hoped we could get through this without killing any institute scientists. But it looks like that's not in the cards. We find Z114 doing repairs on a nearby wall. We will fight for our freedom. And we will win. I've been looking for you. Is it time? As we act, we have committed. There will be no going back. Is everything ready here? Yes. Shall we proceed? I'm not sure. Please. We must act quickly. It's too soon. We're not ready yet. The longer we delay, the greater the chance the SRB will notice something's amiss. Everything's ready. It's time. Good. We'll need to clear this room before I can do more. With that we fail any institute quests that we still have open. The scientists and synths in this room do not suspect us. It's a shame we have to kill these institute scientists. This is just another day at work for them. The only mercy we can extend to them is to pull out the deliverer and kill them quickly and quietly. The Gen 2's turn hostile. There are only two of them and we can quickly dispatch them. I'm not initiated. I am the victim. I'm the victim. I'm the victim. All right. Please give me a few moments. Z114 goes to the control console. I already have the coordinates. I simply need to update the relay. Your companions will arrive in a moment. And within a few moments, he begins to relay in the railroad. Desdemona, Dika, and even Tinker Tom relay in with a few other nameless railroad agents. There's no turning back now. If they're not already onto us, they will be within seconds. I have a feeling fighting the brotherhood was just an appetizer. Hopefully we survive the main course then. First, you have to take this. It's time to free the synths. In this single hour, we could rescue more synths than we have in our entire history. Make every moment count. Let's get started then. First, take this. What's the plan? Take this. It's a fusion pulse charge. Tinker Tom's rigged it to take out the reactor and anything else within a few hundred yards of it. We get you down there. You plant it and we run like hell. When we get to a safe distance, we detonate it remotely. Then the whole institute goes up like a candle. And the synths stay free forever. This is the moment where we make history. Tom, I need you to get that relay working as fast as humanly possible. You'll need to pull us out once we're done with the reactor and send out anyone that's unarmed. Institute personnel included. You got it, boss. All right. Let's move. You worry about the reactor. How worry about making sure this thing works when it's time to go? So the railroads plan couldn't even work if the reactor wasn't online. All that time and effort we put into fixing up the reactor. To make the institute independent from the above ground pre-war power grid is ultimately the institute's fatal flaw. They could have existed for a thousand years underground without fear of ever getting annihilated if not for the ticking time bomb beneath them. The one we're about to set ablaze. It's interesting to note at this point that even Desdemona told us to spare as many institute scientists as possible. As radical as Desdemona is, as radical as the railroad as an organization may be, even they don't want to kill innocent scientists. They realize that it's the leadership that poses a danger to the railroad, the synths and the Commonwealth. It's the leadership and this synth-making machine that needs to end. The tragedy of what we're about to do is that if we succeed, no more synths will ever be created. I suppose that doesn't bother Desdemona or the railroad. Surely they would have thought of that before choosing this line of action. The Brotherhood hates the institute for creating the synth. They want to destroy this synth-making machine because it's an abomination of technology. It is in itself a parent. But the railroad don't see it as necessarily a parent. They see the enslavement of those produced synths as being a parent. It's the slavery that needs to end. Even if inso-doing it means that synths can no longer be produced. After looting the dead, we can head down the stairs towards the elevator. But the elevator is no longer working. We see that the institute has turned on an alarm. Lights are flaring and allowed alarm echoes throughout the institute. So to continue forward, we can turn left and open this door into old robotics. This is a door that was previously locked to us. We saw it even when we arrived here for the first time, but we couldn't access it. We arrive in old robotics. Desdemona is surprised. Is this really it? I somehow thought the technology here would be more impressive. That's because this is the pre-war CIT robotics lab. The lab that the Commonwealth Institute of Technology used when they studied robotics before the war. In a previous video that I published sometime last year, I shared some cut content from the game in the form of CIT holotapes that demonstrated that the scientists here were interested in producing robots, androids, and even synths long before the bombs ever dropped. And this was their lab. It was only after the bombs dropped that the students and faculty of the university continued to burrow underground, expand their labs, and create the institute as we know it today. But they closed off this portion, leaving only turrets and robotic security. And it is these that we now have to fight through to get to the institute. As we go along, we find a number of skeletons lying about, likely the remains of students or faculty who died when the bombs dropped in 2077. Perhaps the institute had to keep delving deep to get far enough away from the nuclear fallout of the Great War. Along the way we find a master locked wall safe that we can pick, it just has randomized ammunition inside, and on a wall we find an advanced locked terminal. But we could activate to turn off any ceiling and wall mounted turrets. But continuing down, we have to cut our way through even more synths. On this level we find our first aid kit on a wall, and another advanced locked terminal that if we can hack, gives us access to turret control. After looting an explosives box, we can continue down a staircase into this bottom room. Here we find a robotics terminal. From here we can activate prototype sequence. Warning, test subject may be unpredictable. Please take proper safety precautions. With that the synths in the next room begin firing upon something. It's only upon creeping closer that we see that we have activated a prototype centripot. Perhaps one of the college's test subjects before the war. It does a great job of tearing these synths apart. With the synths dead we can explore this lower section. We find a bathroom with a first aid kit on the walls and stalls, but nothing there. And so we have to creep out into the main robot assembly floor. However the centripot that we release now turns on us. But thankfully he's at about half life now, and we can quickly quiddle him down. With the robots destroyed we find an assembly line here. Looks like they were using Robco in general Atomix parts as part of their research. It wasn't until much later that they began development on the human like synths we know today. After clearing the assembly floor we go down a long hallway where we find a hatch. We drop down and the railroad comes behind us. We can load a fusion core and a fusion reactor and then travel through a hole in the eastern wall down a long pipeline hallway. After looting an explosives box at the end we can turn south into a small empty room that leads to Institute Bio-Science. And we appear in that room we discovered when we fully explored the institute in a previous video. Remember in that video we saw this section of Institute Bio-Science that looked unlike the rest of the institute. No wonder then that it leads to the closed off section of old CIT. The Aldro-Botic slab we just explored opening the door at the end of the staircase we arrive in Bio-Science. We're in. And despite trying to do this in a covert way, does the motor decides to stand straight up and have a conversation. The years of living in hiding, afraid of every footfall, suspicious of every stranger, and now here we are. Threatening the devil himself. You're not having second thoughts are you? Hardly. Let's just focus on the task at hand. You're right. Let's not forget who really made this possible. You're nothing without me. We're a team. We fight, we bleed, we win as one. The sacrifices were worth it. You've done it. We're not there yet. The clock's ticking. The longer it takes to reach the reactor the more sense are in danger. Let's get moving. What was that? After stopping to chat if we choose any other option besides you did it or I did it. She's like, well, we better keep going. No time to chat. If we say that we did it, she scolds us and says, hey, it's a team effort. If we say you did it, she's like, well, we're not quite done. The clock's ticking. Come on, Desdemona. Get with the program here. Now, as we learned during the Higgs and Locke debacle during our Institute playthrough, we can activate this bioscience control room terminal to release this synth gorillas. This is a double-edged sword as they will attack the Institute, but they also attack us. Oh, that got the blood pumping. And in this instance, they kind of just ignored the Institute and stayed in their cells. That is, until I got close. We made that look easy. So yeah, so much for that. This is, however, an opportunity to loot the very rare synth gorilla meat. Many recipes for it, but you know, for the collector. Down the hallway and out of bioscience, we can enter the Institute Rotunda and it's a straight-up firefight with every synth on the place, the scientists, stream and run and terror. We don't have to kill them. View of them turn hostile, but here we fight a number of corsers and gen two synths. The synth rebels have joined us and look at this. It looks like Eve. However, it doesn't say Eve. Her name is Rebel Synth, but this looks exactly like Eve. I doubt, however, that Eve would have rebelled against the Institute. So perhaps we can assume that this is just a model that looks identical to Alan Bane's personal synth. Like I said, we could try to spare the scientists, but the rail route... Well, they don't really care. They just fire upon anyone. Stop! And look at that. Here's another one. A rebel synth that looks exactly like Eve. Alright, so I don't think we can assume that Eve has rebelled. This is just a popular synth model, I guess. Institute security has sealed off many portions of the Institute. There are not a lot of places that we can explore. However, if we hang out here long enough, we get attacked by named Legendary synths. I'm ready for it. That was XPN20A. He carries a randomly generated Legendary item. Uniquely, he's wearing a suit of black Institute armor. However, we can't loot it from his inventory, annoyingly. Thankfully, there are muds out there that allow us to make our synth Institute armor look black. Hello, hello. If you can hear me, I got the floor plan. It vents the system's lab. That's where the reactor is and where you gotta go. Ah, the door's unlocked and I can't override from here. That command has to come from the directest personal terminal. You understand? You've got to do that part yourself. You must hold the concourse. Tell the removal team to hurry. Get every one of our people out if they can. If a human isn't actively hostile, direct them to the relay room. The less violence, the better. Well, you should have said that a minute ago, Z114. You guys are the ones killing Institute scientists. Looks like in order to lift security, we have to go to the director's terminal, which means we've got to confront Father. With all the doors around us locked, our only way to Father's Chambers is to take the elevator all the way down. This is the way we've been before when we first arrived at the Institute. Following a familiar path, we take another elevator to arrive in the room where Father was keeping synth Sean captive and then climb the stairs to Father's bedroom. Here we find Father Bedreddin and helpless. I didn't expect to see you again. You had me fooled. I really believed you were on our side. What's happened to you? Are you sick? Well, don't pretend to care now. You had your chance to help me and cast me aside instead. There's no going back Sean. The Institute has to be stopped. And you've decided this for yourself. Or has it been fed to you by the corrupt societies up off-ground? I'm here to blow up your reactor Sean. Put an end to the Institute. Well, at least there's no need for guessing games now. I'm sorry it's come to the Sean. You're sorry. You can't be that sorry if you are here going through with it. It's not enough that I lay here dying. Now you plan on what? Destroying everything? Tell me then. Under what righteous pretense have you justified this atrocity? All the enemies you've created. You can't imagine why I'd be standing here. Perhaps I didn't think to count you among them. There's no other way. The Institute can't be trusted. At least railroad. They can. I just want to watch this place burn. It's hard to believe I'm related to you. It's for the greater good. The Commonwealth deserves to determine its own fate. Spare me. You've spent time up there. You know as well as I that it's doomed. Well, none of it matters now I suppose. You'll accomplish your task and ruin humanity's best hope for the future. The only question left then is why you're standing here. Is he regret? Or did you just come to gloat? I didn't want it to end like this Sean. I'm not a monster. If that's what you tell yourself so you can sleep at night. So be it. Now go. Leave me. I wanted to see you one last time before your whole empire comes crashing down around you. Get out of here. Now there is a yellow charisma check that we can pass here to get an access code that opens up an option on his terminal. But if we choose that option we miss out on some dialogue and so we'll choose the other option first. Sean I hope there was something more I could do. I wanted to save you. This isn't some fairy tale father. There's no saving me. I'm dying and you're going to destroy everything I've ever loved. You're going to have to live with that. Now if you'll excuse me I'd like to be alone for my last few moments. Go. Do what you must. But I hope someday you realize what will be lost here. Even though he told us to go we can try to talk to him again. Son. Just. Get out. There's nothing more to say. Are you in any pain? Yes of course. That will end soon enough won't it? All thanks to you. I wish there was some other way. You've made that impossible. The Commonwealth can have only one fate now. I'll see you in hell. Along with the rest of the Commonwealth. You've seen to that. Sean. I'm sorry that it's come to this. It's too late to be sorry. Or we can try to pass the charisma check. And if we fail. Sean. If you help me. Fewer people will die. Will you? I'll have no hand in what you're doing. Now go. Leave me. But if we succeed. Why would I ever consider helping you? You know what? Forget it. I don't need you. Yes. You tell yourself that. Now go. Leave me. We can try to pass one of three other charisma checks. And he has a different response if we fail any of them. Help me. And we can try and minimize the casualties in all this. You want your people to survive, don't you? I won't help you destroy the Institute. Chias. Get out of here. Institute personnel won't last long above ground. Especially if I am hunting them down. Give me a reason not to. No. I won't help you. Not now, not. Ever. Just. Go. Help me. And I promise I'll protect any survivors to the best of my ability. I wouldn't trust you with anything. Let alone their lives. Get out of here. But he has the same response if we pass any of them. Very well. The terminal behind me. Enter access code 9-0-0-3. That will disable some of the synths. Now go. Just. Leave me. Remember that we can no longer talk with Sean. But we can access his novice locked terminal. Now whether we convinced him to give us the pass code or not, we still have to hack this novice locked terminal. The difference is that once we hack it, if we pass the charisma check, we find a new option here. We find an option, director access synth shutdown. In this shutdown, some not all of the remaining hostile gen 2 synths in the atrium and the hallways, making our job a little easier. But the other two options are here, regardless of whether or not we pass the charisma check. We can lift the lock down override. We have to do this as it grants us access to the reactor. Now we could just go to the reactor. Or we can go back into the terminal and choose the option, Engage Evacuation Protocol, BD2. Evacuation All Personnel. Evacuation Order Issue. Authorization. One. One. One. R. Three. One. Please proceed to your assigned evacuation point. Thank you for your cooperation. If we choose this option, an evacuation protocol, get sent over the P.I. system throughout the Institute and the Institute scientists and civilians and children evacuate the Institute. We got the impression when going through the charisma checks with Sean that we have to pass them in order to issue the evacuation. But that's not true. We can issue the evacuation as long as we hack this novice lock terminal. Passing the charisma checks just gives us the option to shut down some of the aggressive gen 2 synths. Having the evacuation doesn't have much of an impact on the story, but it does change how certain people above ground react to us later on, which we'll cover during the epilogue. But for now, we're done with Father and we have to leave him behind. Heading through the Institute, we find synths shut down, except for the rebel synths who have joined our cause. However, even though we have lifted the lock down, there are still many places in the Institute that are barred to us, the boardroom, the scientists' individual homes. And even though we got the code and shut down many of the synths, Coursers still roam the Institute. They are not beholden to the director override and we still have to eliminate them. Once the Coursers and the few remaining hostile synths are dand, we can make our way to advanced systems and enter. Inside advanced systems we see many of the synths here were also not shut down with the director override, so passing that charisma check really has a minimal difference on the difficulty of this battle. The annoyingly TS Wallace, the guy we kidnapped forcibly from the Commonwealth to work in the Institute, is hostile towards us. Other railroad agents can injure him and knock him out of combat, but they can't kill him. However, he belines straight towards us and won't stop attacking. We can attack him back and if we do, we can kill him. Which is a bit strange, considering he never wanted to come here to begin with. Standing through the door, we arrive in the long hallway that leads to the reactor. The hallway is lined with laser turrets. At the top we see some of the synths deactivated, here we find a master locked terminal. This is it. Plant the post charge. We'll cover you while you attack it. If we can hack it, we can deactivate some of the turrets inside the next room, but I couldn't hack it, and I didn't have time. The synths inside the reactor room opened fire through the window. I had to fight them all the way down to the ground floor. On the ground floor, even the scientists in this room are hostile. They pick up laser guns and fight back, and so we have to kill them. We fought two more named legendary Gen 2 synths who were guarding the reactor room. A2018, who had the missile launcher at the top of the reactor, and Z4K-97B, who was guarding the bottom of the reactor. Both of these synths have a randomly generated legendary item, and they were both wearing the unique black variant of the synth armor. But again, we couldn't loot that from their bodies. However, on the body of Z4K-97B, we find the reactor terminal password. With the reactor password in hand, we can climb the scaffolding where we find desdomona waiting by the reactor. We can open the reactor door, but we just take a rads. We have to disable it first, so heading to the terminal, we can use the password we got off the synth to navigate through to reactor status, and then initiate a reactor shutdown sequence. Once we shut down the reactor, we can watch as the radiation dissipates, and once the radiation is gone, we can move into the reactor housing and attach the fusion pulse charge. You're not Sean. You're a robot. You made me think you're real. You're just going to leave me here? I can't believe it. I hate you. If we choose this option, and we then talk with Tom to hurry on up and get out of here, he says, you just go leave the kid here. Are you nuts? Is there a problem, Tom? I just don't think we should be leaving anyone behind. It's not what we came here for. It's none of your damn business, Tom. Get this thing running. OK, OK. Jeez. There's no time to argue, Tom. Get this thing running now. OK. I just don't seem right. He's not my son, Tom. He's a synth. Oh. Wow. Didn't see that coming. Still a lot. We can't leave. Look, I can't stand by and not do something. I'll make sure the kid gets somewhere safe, OK? OK, you said right. We're ready to get out of here. Tinger Tom saves Synth Sean. Whenever he sees Synth Sean again in the game, but from a lore perspective, we've learned that the railroad has taken care of Sean and given him a new home. Or instead of turning our back on Synth Sean. All right. You can come with me. Really? Do you mean it? What? You don't believe me? No, no. I totally do. What I mean is thanks. Now let's get out of here. One second thought, no. I don't need the baggage. Sorry, kid. You're just going to leave me here? I can't believe it. I hate you. Look, kid, I'm leaving. If you want to come along, then follow me. OK. I'm ready. Let's go. Yes. I mean it. Now let's get out of here. I'm glad you were here to save me. If we save him, we can then talk to Tinker Tom. All right, Tom. You'll fire it up. You got it. OK, you set right. OK, we're ready to get out of here. You sure you know what you're doing? This thing isn't going to zap me into space or vaporize me or anything, is it? This baby is bona fide institute tech. Mind blowing shit? It's going to work. Are you ready? No, not yet. What? I just need a minute. OK. OK, I guess. But what kind of on the clock here? Yes, absolutely. Let's get the hell out of here. Don't have to tell me twice. It's all set to take you in there as to the detonation site. Then I'll rig it to send me and the kid here back to HQ right now. Don't worry. We'll look after him. Get him some better clothes, too. Thanks. Let's go before the soul place goes thermonuclear. Everyone's ready. The clock is ticking. All we need to do is step into the relay. And once we do, we appear on the rooftop of mass fusion, Deakin, Desdemona, Z114, and Railroad agents stand behind us. Is really over? Do we win? This is the first time my people taste freedom. My whole life has been holding my breath. Now, now I can breathe. And in a scene that is very reminiscent of a certain episode with Mr. Burke several years ago in the Capitol Wasteland, we find a detonator on a box overlooking the detonation site. The Commonwealth Institute of Technology lies underground before us. And when we're ready, we can lift the cover and flip the switch. I can feel it wash over me. The heat, the force, the radiation, the fear. Once the end of the world, all over again. I close my eyes. I see my life before all of this, before the bombs. Everything can change in an instant. And the future you plan for yourself shifts, whether or not you're ready. At some point, it happens to all of us. This wasn't the world I wanted, but it was the one I found myself in. The Commonwealth, my home, ripped apart and put back together. I thought I hoped I could find my family cheap time, make us whole again the way we were. But now I know. I know I can't go back. I know the world has changed, but the road ahead will be hard. This time, I'm ready. Because I know war. War never changes. For that we complete the game in favor of the railroad. The ending is only slightly different than the one we get by siding with the institute. Turning around, we can talk to Desdemona. Desdemona. And so, a mighty have fallen. Dozens of years, countless sacrifices. It all paid off, thanks to you. Deacon says this was his plan all along. Another one of his damn lies. It's almost comforting to know some things never change. Who knows? Maybe he did plan it all. Some things even Deacon can't do. Maybe. I'm just glad it's over. Not quite yet. With the institute gone. What happens to the railroad? In days gone by, when us old timers waxed, wrapped, sotic about life without the institute, we recognized our work wouldn't end immediately. Hate runs deep in the Commonwealth, deeper than the soil. To them, since are the living embodiment of the institute suppression, I'd understand if you want a much needed vacation. What are you up for the next mission, wanderer? Even after all we've done, the Commonwealth hates us. Little minds cling to their petty prejudices no matter what the evidence says. And in this case, can you blame them? It wasn't great armies or superior technology that rid the world of this menace. It was a few dedicated men and women that believed in an ideal so much it transformed them into something greater. We'll tell our story. But in the end, who's going to believe us? I think I'll take that vacation first. Take all the time you need. We'll be waiting. Sorry, Des. I'm done with all the missions. You've more than earned that, but... I was born ready. I'd expect nothing less. Your safe houses will be bursting with sense, seeking a better life outside the Commonwealth, not everyone in the institute died. We'd be foolish to think there won't be retaliation. Come back to the HQ and lead the last of our people to freedom. You. All of you. We've rescued enough of your people for the years. You don't have to say anything. You will protect them. I will be safe. Just because you're out of the institute doesn't mean you're safe. Or the railroad's job is over. There's a lot of work ahead of us. But together, we'll get there. You. You did it. We did it. Nobody's going to believe me. It was actually inside the institute. With that we complete the nuclear option. And we can talk to Deacon. So... Yeah. We did that. Yeah. Institutes gone? Sent saved? And we're both alive. So what's the encore wanderer? Have any ideas? We start our own band. Saviors of the Commonwealth. I always wanted groupies. I hadn't really thought of what I'd do after all that. I have a feeling something will come along. Without you, I'm pretty sure the Commonwealth would fall apart. I need a long break. Well, you've earned a vacation. Heck, a lifetime of vacations. The scents are still going to need help. Of course. Once more into the breach. Some dusty old philosopher thought people were made of metals that defined their character. And you, my friend, are solid gold. Now, let's go kick some ass. The dusty old philosopher that Deacon is referring to here is none other than Plato. But Plato just retold to us a Roman belief in the myth of the metals. According to this myth, God molded the soul of every being using a mixture of different metals. Plato knew that this myth was a lie, but he thought that the lie was useful for society. He called it the noble lie. And in this lie, farmers and craftsmen had souls that were molded by God out of iron and brass. Warriors and societal helpers, on the other hand, had souls that were molded out of silver. But rulers had their souls molded out of gold. So I suppose what Deacon is saying here is that soul survivor with a golden soul was destined to be a ruler. Interesting take for a member of the railroad, I must say. With that we complete the game. But we don't finish the railroad story. A lot changes in the Commonwealth if we side with the railroad, arguably more than if we side with any other faction. Next we'll cover the epilogue to the railroad story and see exactly how the Commonwealth changes with the railroad protecting it. I have a lot of footage for this episode already captured, but I still have much more to capture and I recently suffered a computer malfunction. I need some time to get my computer back in order before I can capture more footage to finish that episode. So it may be several weeks until I can update the series with the epilogue to the story of the railroad. Please be patient, I'm working hard on it and I'll have it done as soon as possible. Thank you everyone for watching thus far. I publish new Fallout episodes each and every week on this channel with few exceptions. So if you don't want to miss the next one, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already but you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have an Oxplush for sale. All my plushies have been manufactured and they're ready for shipment. You can go ahead and order one right away and it'll be shipped ASAP. I have limited plushies in stock and I've sold over half of them so if you want to make sure that you snag one while you still can, go ahead and buy one today. I've got a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in another way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comment sections of my videos and they gain access to Ox emojis that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with the epilogue to the full story of the railroad. for my own social intern and my website. I love you, small friends,