In our last video, we arrived at the town of Atatum, built within the ruins of pre-war Los Angeles, now called the Boneyard. While there, we finally got the location of the Mariposa Military Base, from a tarot card reading fortune teller. But we also uncovered a scandal between two gangs of LA, the regulators, and the blades. After a thorough investigation, we discovered that the regulators, pretending to be the police force of Atatum, are actually using the town's folk as slave labor. And blaming all of society's problems, including the murder of the mayor's son, on arrival gang to the north called the blades. But the regulators have been stealing money from the people of Atatum for years and are therefore heavily armored. The blades have nothing. Before the blades can free Atatum of their regulator overlords, we have to help them get some weapons. To do so, Razor, the leader of the blades, asked us to clear out some death clause from the death clause sanctuary to the east. These death clause are the only things keeping them from obtaining weapons from the weapon merchants called the gun runners. But before we had that way, we'll head west to explore the rumor that there's a library here in the Boneyard. Heading west from downtown, where we found the headquarters of the blades, we arrive at the Boneyard library. A huge brick ruin, with the symbol of a cross and a circle outside the main door. The game describes this scene thus. In the heart of the city, a great library. Fortified and restored, rises with forbidding yet graceful presence. You feel a sense of peace. Heading inside, we find bookcases everywhere. And standing just inside the entrance is a woman in black wearing a green mohawk named Kajita. You're not from around here? Who are you, she says? She is immediately suspicious of us and asks us what we are doing here in the Boneyard. We can say what's with all the questions. First, you tell me who you are. And she says, fair enough, I'm called Kajita. What's it matter to you? We can say, look lady, why so hostile? And she says 90% of the people in the city fall into one or more of three categories. Rapists, murderers or thieves. I'm a thief. And you actually seem polite. So that makes me wonder, okay? Call it a survival instinct. We ease her mind when we tell her that we're not from around here. So we don't fall into any of her three categories. And what that, she opens up. We can ask her questions about the Boneyard. She tells us about the blades by saying that they're not too bad as far as gangs go. The gun runners used to be a real gang, but then they went soft. They started setting up a deal whereby they trade weapons that they get from their victims or buy from the hub. Since no one here is up for a trip to the hub, it's easier to buy from the gun runners so the gun runners do pretty well, even though their prices are high. The followers of the apocalypse live and work out of this building, the library of the Boneyard. She describes them as a bunch of peace preachers. Why they haven't been wiped out yet, she can't say. They're lousy combatants and have no understanding of the real world. But other than that, they're polite and well educated. We learn that she comes from Additum. She left though because it was a little too boring for her. She's not thrilled with living here in the Boneyard. She describes it as a pretty hostile place, saying that if she ever got the opportunity to leave, she'd take it. Well, after hearing that we can say, look, I don't plan on staying in this place too much longer myself. And she says, no kiddin'. Well, if you're looking for another hand, I'll sign on. Better than spending the rest of my existence in this hell hole, right? We can warn her by saying, well, you are a welcome addition, but the desert's not much more fun. But that doesn't dissuade her. She says, alright. Looks like we've got a little butt kickin' to do. And with that, Kajita joins our party as a permanent companion. Her voice is distinguished from Ian and Tycho's because her fought color is black. The first thing we learn about her is that she hates dogs. If we click on dog meat, he says, woof, and she goes, I hate dogs. Well, at least we've got another cherry personality to keep us company. Kajita here has really low strength, which means she can't carry a lot. However, we can always use, again, exploit by bartering with her and giving her things for free to get around this limitation. She can use some small arms, the 223 pistol, the 14 millimeter pistol, and the 10 millimeter SMG, though her sprite limitations means she can't use the 10 millimeter pistol, or the 44 desert eagle. But she's dynamite with melee weapons. In particular, she's deadly with a ripper or a power fist. The power fist was the end game weapon I gave to Kajita. We'll find one in a little bit, but bear in mind that she is very squishy. She only has 39 hit points, the lowest of all of our companions, even lower than dog meat. Dog meat and Ian have 50 HP. This combined with the fact that she's a melee character, and she wants to run up and punch people in the face, means that she dies a lot. Near to where we find Kajita is a woman that appears to look exactly like her, Nicole. This is the leader of the followers of the apocalypse. Greetings. Hey, we're very glad you could join us. We hope you have found our humble abode to your satisfaction. Thanks. Can you tell me more about what you worship here? We don't worship so much as follow a set of principles. We want to bring peace back to this wasteland, the world tends toward destruction, so we try to make a difference. How so? We try to remind people why the Great War happened in the first place, and help ensure it will ever happen again. Have you been successful at all? We never give up hope. We never will, even though most live by the gun these days. And we are concerned with the children of the cathedral. What about them? They claim to want peace like us, but anyone who disagrees with them just disappears. Their dark god is not what he seems. Believe me. What, their god called the Holy Flame? Because that name doesn't sound sinister at all. But don't you think you're being a little bit paranoid? Maybe. But it's what's kept us alive this long. They claim to like peace like us. What do you mean by us? Is this what all of the followers think or is it just you? We are united. If not, we'll perish. Now forgive me if that irritates you. What else can you tell me about the children of the cathedral? You've probably seen their hospitals around. They preach peace, but there is something very wrong with them. We need to find out what. Do you know who their leader is? Morpheus is the leader of the children of the cathedral. He is evil, and that fact must be exposed. Okay. Why do you think he's evil? The number of our spies have seen Nightkin coming in and out of the back room of the children's temple. Something important is back there. Well, say I wanted to destroy them. Would you be able to help me? No, but I know someone who will. Go to the cathedral and find a woman named Laura. Say the phrase, red rider. We'll create a diversion if we can. All right, thanks. I'll keep that in mind. Our destiny lies before us. Let us hope we are worthy. Nicole, tell me more about the followers of the apocalypse. What would you like to know? Where did the followers start? Far to the south, near the great glow. The times were hard, but we managed to survive. We realized then the great war must never happen again. When was it that you founded the followers of the apocalypse? After my parents were killed by marauders. It was time the killing stopped. It's our goal to make this land the way it used to be before the war. I'm sorry to hear about your parents. Thank you. I appreciate that. Now is there anything else you needed to ask me? What made you and the followers decide to move up North? There aren't many left on South. The radiation polluted almost everything. Most of the remaining people followed us to start the organization. How did your family survive? We lived on the outskirts of the great glow. Sickness had started spreading, so we gathered all the people and we made our way north. That's when my parents were killed. Why is the area by the glow still so radioactive after all of this time? Well, the rumor is that there was something so important there that the area was saturated with bombs to ensure everything was wiped out. And what she says here coincides with what we've learned from our explorations. The glow conceals the West Tech Research Facility, which for a time was researching the Pan-immunity Varian project, a project designed to create a virus that would make Americans immune to Chinese biological weaponry, that if China attacked one of their first targets would be this research facility. With it out of the picture, there would be nothing standing in the way of their biological weapons. So it looks as if the followers have a beef with the children of the cathedral. Nicole described their leader Morpheus as being an evil man, but she didn't really have any evidence to back this up. All she said was that she saw some nightkin coming in and out of the building. But what exactly is a nightkin? We haven't come across them in any of our travels yet. If we move into the first room to the left, we find some children of the cathedral robes on the ground. We should loot at least one of these, unless we have one already. I didn't need them because I still have the one I got off of high priestess Jane. In the corner of this room is an ice chest on the ground. And inside, we find a 10-mill of 44 magnum in their ammunition. In the room directly to the north, we find another cooler on the ground. And inside, we find some radics and some stem packs. In the room just north of this, we find some stem packs, fruit, and a doctor's bag inside the refrigerator. Sadly, all of these bookcases are empty. Not a single one has anything in them. But at the far northern end of the Eastern Wall, we find a staircase leading to a basement. Here we find even more bookcases which are completely empty. But standing in one of the aisles, we find a creature, described by the game as a hideous ghoul. But he's intelligent and polite. He says greetings, brother, and he tells us that his name is Talias. He's here to help the followers of the apocalypse better understand the children of the cathedral. But that said he doesn't know a whole lot. He does know that the children are in league with the Nightkin. And here we learn that the Nightkin are super mutants. Perhaps the Nightkin are some sort of superior breed of super mutant. But what differentiates a Nightkin from a regular super mutant? Perhaps the Nightkin is created from a prime. I'm sure we'll find out when we bump into them. Talias tells us that it is the children of the cathedral and the Nightkin super mutants that transformed him into what he is today. And then he begins to tell us a familiar story. A long time ago he was living in a place far north of here. And that place was having problems with its water supply. And so they sent him out to fix it. When we ask him to elaborate, he says that he came from a vault to the north. He volunteered to go out into the wasteland to help with their water supply. But all the community could give him before he left was a shotgun and some shells. When we ask him what his vault was named, he says it was called Vault 13. And we can say hey, that's my vault. I came from Vault 13 too. And I was sent out on the same mission you were. Talias says really? Has Overseer Jacorian finally seen his way through to allow people to travel outside of the vault? And we can lie or tell him the truth? If we tell him the truth, then he says that he thought as much. Jacorian was always a cautious man. He pities Jacorian for his job, though he describes the search for the water chip to be a fool's quest. Strangely enough, even though we've already found the water chip and returned it to Vault 13, we don't have an option to tell that to Talias here. But if we lie and tell him that Jacorian now allows people to leave the vault, he says that he's glad that Overseer has finally come to his senses. While it is far from safe out here, he says it'll do good to restore the Earth once more. He tells us that he's not the only one that Jacorian has sent from Vault 13. We met Ed, remember Ed was dead, and while we were exploring the glow, there was a body on the ground described as a vaultweller. I forgot to include this in my video about the glow, but when we click on the corpse, it does say Vaultweller. Could this be another Vault 13 vaultweller? Who reached out to the Brotherhood of Steel to help find water, but was sent to the glow on their quest, where he eventually perished. He then tells us the rest of his story. In his search for the water chip, he made his way all the way to the Necropolis. He discovered exactly what we did, that they had a water chip, but when he arrived, he found far more super mutants there than when we arrived. He worked together with Set to attack them, and he ended up killing many of them, reducing half of their number. And now we understand why if we arrive too late to the Necropolis, and we find all of the ghouls dead, the one living ghoul hiding behind the bookcase, says that the mutants came here to take revenge because some human killed them all. At the time, I thought he must have been referring to the Vaultweller, but no, he was referring to Talius. It was Talius who came here before us, and killed most of the super mutants. That's why the super mutants come to wipe them out, even before we ever visit the Necropolis. But he was eventually overpowered. The mutants then dragged him to the Maripus Emilitary Base, whereupon they infected him with FEV. However, something went wrong. Talius didn't respond to FEV, the way all of the other mutants did. Could it be because he was a Vaultweller? And until recently was unexposed radiation. In any event, he retained his mind. And so they kicked him out to die in the wasteland, but the followers of the Apocalypse found him, brought him back here, and nursed him back to health. But he tells us a little bit about what he saw inside the military base. He saw their leader, the head of a mutant army. And he confirms our suspicions. He kidnaps humans and transforms them into super mutants. He doesn't know the exact process, because he was knocked unconscious during it. At this point, we have two ways to get a reward from him. We can promise to go to the military base and kill this leader to avenge Talius. He says, thank you for your kindness, you do me a great service. And we can tell him that we already wiped out the super mutants at the Necrampolis. Whereupon again, he thanks us. No matter which option we choose, he gives us a Flamer. And if we have fewer than four intelligence, he gives us some mentats. Talius here has just given us a huge piece to the puzzle. We've always known that something has been off about the children of the Cathedral. High priestess Jane was unnecessarily sensitive. They worshiped the Holy Flame, which Nicole described as the Dark God. We found them at the Necrampolis, and at the time we didn't have an explanation. But with Talius' testimony here, we understand that the children of the Cathedral are working with the Master and his super mutant army. Nicole said that the leader of the Cathedral was named Morpheus. Could Morpheus be the Master? But wait a minute, Talius also said that their leader who infected him with FEV was at the military base. How could Morpheus be the Master if he's both at the Cathedral and the Military Base? Perhaps he's not the Master. Or perhaps we'll find a completely different leader at the Military Base. Could he be this Lou, whom Harry kept talking about? Well, the only way at this point to find out for sure is to go there. Exploring the basement of the library, we find very little, just a knife and one of the coolers. So when done, we can head outside the library. During west we can explore the rest of this zone. We find a building just behind the library, and inside is a man in a full suit of combat armor. We see a burly bounty hunter with a button that reads, I'm Christopher, and you're meat. His full name is Chris Avalon. He's named after one of the developers of the game. The same Chris Avalon who wrote, The Fallout Bible. He doesn't like talking with us. He won't answer any of our questions. However, if we kill children in this game, we achieve a special reputation title called Child Killer. If we approach Chris Avalon with the Child Killer title, he says, Did you know that there's a bounty of 1500 caps on your head for killing children? It's time to collect. Not, however, is not the only way to turn him hostile. During our dialogue, he says, what do you want? If we respond by saying, a doughnut, he says, we don't appreciate wise guys here. Buzz off. If we talk to him again, and again say that we want a doughnut, he says, That joke wasn't even funny the first time. You're about to discover why I'm one of the most fearsome bounty hunters in the wasteland. And I won't even get paid for it. His thugs are not very tough, but Avalon is pretty difficult. He has the potential to use a burst weapon which could kill our companions. If we kill him, we find both types of 10-millimeter ammunition, both types of 5-millimeter ammunition, throwing knives which are the favorite of Kajita, an assault rifle, and some combat armor, not a bad haul. But even though he's a bruce individual, he does kill child killers. So for that reason, I'd hate to see him gone from the world, and I reloaded a previous save. From here, we see two exit zones, one to the west, which leads back to the world map, and one to the north, which also leads back to the world map. So to continue, we need to head east, through downtown past the blades, and into the Deathclaw playground. As soon as we enter Kajita says, watch out for deathclaws, and indeed we see a deathclaw immediately to the north. Now it's been quite some time since we last had to kill a deathclaw, and it appears that we've grown quite a lot. The party and the vault dweller were able to kill this guy without much of a problem. Heading east, we pass a large building to the north. Outside, we find more pre-war signs. This one says, Ripper, perhaps it was a movie advertisement poster. But then the road turns north. Heading north, we find a door that leads inside the building. Exploring the containers, we find most of them empty. The one at Esk, we find booze and some shotgun shells. And that's all we see for now. But we learn later that in the darkness, I missed something. Heading outside, we find another deathclaw roaming the streets to the north. And goodness, he is fast. Even though I used my sniper rifle to engage in combat from the other side of the street, he managed to cross the street in one turn. He landed a few good hits, but the crew and I were still able to take him out. We can't go any further north, we can't go any further south. So to continue, we need to cross an exit boundary to the east. On the other side, we see a river of glowing, flowing toxic ooze. We see a warehouse to the north, with a moat of glowing goo around it. In the middle of the river is a small island, and on the island is a corpse. We don't know this person's name, but the game tells us that it looks as if this person died very painfully. But upon examining closely, we see a very familiar blue and yellow color scheme to his clothing. Could this be a third vault-dweller sent out by Overseer Jacorian from Vault 13? We never really know, but this yellow and blue clothing item is conspicuous. Moving to the east, we see a bridge guarded by a soldier. But before going that way, we can head north west. We don't find anything in these buildings, but we see a dismembered torso. Lying on the bank of the river. And we see what is likely the source of this toxic moat. Ampede toxic waste barrels. Whatever this factory produced before the war, created barrels and barrels of toxic waste, which are still contaminating this land many years later. But we can't travel any further north, so heading west, we can talk to the guard on the bridge. To get by, all we have to do is say that we need to speak with this boss. It's very important. And he says, oh, okay. Gabriel will talk to you. Come on. What that he moves out of the way. Moving north, we see a few guards surrounded by barrels. One says, Gabriel is a great boss. The other says, hey, you got any Nukikola? The sign on the outside of the building by the door says gun runners. Heading inside, we see six armed men and women in middle armor. Three of whom are guarding four lockers in the back of the building. We see one man in combat armor and a dwarf in the middle of the room. The dwarf's name is Zach. We can barter with him or we can say, hey, can you give me a discount? He says, well, yeah, Gabriel can give out discounts, but you haven't done anything to earn one. So until then, you pay full price like anyone else. All right, so looks like we got to talk with Gabriel. Gabriel is the guy in combat armor heading over there. We learn that it's not often that the gun runners get visitors. Strange to have a still functional shop, if they never get visitors. We can ask why and he says, well, it's because of the death clause outside the factory. He says that no matter how many they kill, they always seem to come back. But ultimately, they're machinists, not fighters. And so they're not the best ones for the task. We can offer to help and he says that if we can clear the death clause, he can offer us a discount and one of two rewards. Now the choice we make here is very important. We can either choose to loot weapons and ammunition for ourselves, or to have the gun runners equip the blades with high-tech weaponry. No matter which option we choose, he says if you clear out all the death clause, we've got a deal. But that's strange. We killed all the death clause, didn't we? Heading back to the death clause playground we can run around a while. And sure enough, we don't see any death clause that heading back inside the house. Oh, that's what I missed. A staircase leading down to the basement. In the basement, we find a mother death clause. This mother death clause is the toughest death clause in the game. She has an HP of 320 compared to a typical death clause 225. She has an armor class of 30 compared to a normal death clause 10. She's also faster. With 13 action points compared to a regular death clause 10, and she's physically stronger, dealing 27 melee damage compared to a regular death clause 19. Because of this, I died multiple times trying to kill the mother death clause. A battle made even harder when trying to keep my companions alive and when suffering from a cam withdrawal. But at last I was successful. But to make sure no more death clause can spawn here, we have to move to the southern part of this basement and destroy each of these death clause eggs. When done, we can leave the basement, head east to the factory, and return to Gabriel of the gun runners. We can out tell him that we've killed all of the death clause even their eggs. And he says, you've what? You've killed them all. Thank the gods. Now we can move to where we can get our own materials and not have to rely on those snakes and additum. You name it and you've got it, my friend. And here we can again make our choice. If we say that we want weapons and ammunition, he says you've got to just take whatever you want. We are pulling out of here in a day or two, but we'll leave more weapons and ammo than you can carry. Just come back here whenever you need them. With that, the gun runners eventually leave the fortress and we'll lose them as a merchant. However, the gun runners guarding the lockers all move away and we can loot them at our pleasure. In the first locker to the left, we find another plasma rifle, a plasma pistol, and more energy weapon ammunition. In the second locker, we find our rocket launcher with some explosive rockets. In the third locker, we find our power fist and our ripper, both excellent weapons for Kajida. And in the fourth locker, we find some grenades and stem packs. The gun runners don't leave just yet so we can make some money by selling the goods that they gave to us back to them if we don't want them. The other option is to ask the gun runners to equip the blades and he says you've got it. Let your friends know that they've got their weapons. If we choose this option, the gun runners continue to guard the lockers. We can't loot them. Unless of course we kill them, but the gun runners will stay here, assuming the blades get rid of the regulators and with the death clog on, they now have no reason to relocate so we can continue to use them as merchants. Thankfully, Zach here, the dwarf, has a power fist on his inventory. I went ahead and bought one for Kajida. On our way back, we find something else that we missed in the death-class sanctuary. Line on the sidewalk near to the eastern wall of the building, we find the corpse of a merchant. And on his body are the hydroponic parts that Miles asked us to find. This is the merchant that Samuel told us went missing. With the parts in hand, we can pass through downtown and head south back to Aditum. He's heading over to Miles. We can hand him the parts. He looks them over and says, yep, these are them, but it looks like Smithiest going to have to do a little work on them. Can you take them over to him? We say yes and playing the role of a courier, take the parts over to Smithie. He says that he can repair them, but it will take a little bit of time. The screen briefly goes black and he hands the parts back to us. With the repaired parts in hand, we can return them to Miles. And Miles says that Smithie did a great job. Thanks for the help and here's some stuff for the trouble. He gives us some caps and some stempacks. He then says, and this is important, that if we ever find our way back here, we should look him up again and also Smithie. They may be able to help us out with some adjustments to our equipment. So, taking advantage of his offer, we can immediately talk with him again. And he says, hey, it looks like you found some power armor. I've heard of a chemical process that I could use to harden the surface of the armor. However, I'm missing some information, which could give me the last few clues to the formula and the supplies necessary. I've heard the librarian in the hub, Mrs. Stapleton, has some journals and books that might be of use. If you could get those from there, I could probably test the process on your armor. So, it looks like we have to head to the hub, but first we can stop by Smithie. He says, thanks for fixing the farms. If you ever find yourself a plasma rifle, bring it on back here. I know a few tricks that I can pull with the injectors. But we've already got a plasma rifle, so we can hand it on over to him. He takes the plasma rifle, pulls out his tools, and starts to tinker with it. The screen goes black, and then he says, there, I think that does it. And he hands us back our plasma rifle. Try that out for size. With that, we now have a turbo plasma rifle. The turbo plasma rifle is for my money, the best weapon in the game. Certainly the best non-automatic rifle in the game. It does between 35 and 70 damage, which is greater than the between 30 and 65 of a typical plasma rifle. And its AP cost goes down by 1, consuming only 4 AP per shot. Had later stages of the game, I was able to get 3 shots off each round with this thing. And it has an increased range, 35 compared to the plasma rifle's 25. This is greater than even the sniper rifle. Only downside is it now weighs 2 more pounds. But in my opinion, that's a small price to pay. Now for players who really want to be energy weapons snipers, a better option may be the laser rifle. It has a staggering range of 45, 10 more than even the turbo plasma rifle. However, it does far less damage. Between 25 and 50 damage, instead of the 35 and 70 of the turbo plasma rifle, it costs 5 AP. But we're not done, we've got some hardened power armor to create. So heading back to the hub, we can go to Mrs. Stapleton's bookshop and ask her if she has a set of chemistry journals. Miles and Additum said that she might. And she says, yes, I've heard from Miles, and I have the one that he's looking for. However, it's gonna cost us 750 caps. But that's okay, it's a small price to pay for the best suit of armor in the game. With that, she hints the books over. After doing the little bartering in the hub, we can return to Additum and deliver the books. Miles takes the books from us and starts flipping through them. Mmm, yes. He says, he mumbles to himself for a few more minutes and then says, well, I think I can figure it out. But it'll take a full day for the bonding to occur. Is that acceptable? And unless we're still trying to hunt for the water chip, that's totally fine. The screen goes black and a day and later, Miles hands us the power armor back and it seems to glint a little more than it did before. Well, he says, I think it worked. I hope it helps you out. And at last, we can equip our brand new suit of hardened power armor. The hardened power armor is superior to the regular power armor in a number of ways. It's worth 15,000 caps compared to the regular power armor's 12,000. And it has a damage rating of 50 compared to the power armor's 40, with a DT of 13 compared to the power armor's 12. And it has significantly improved resistances across the board. It doesn't look any different. It still looks like a T51B suit of power armor. But that's okay. We're here for function not form. And I'm just glad I've got this character's end game armor and weaponry. We still have one task to complete, heading north we can leave Additum and enter downtown Boneyard. From here we can go back to the blade's headquarters and check in with Razor. When we meet her, she has already heard from the gun runners and her blades have already been equipped with new weaponry. She says, thank you for all of your help. We're going to invade Additum and we could use someone like you on our side. Here we have a choice. We can let the blades attack the regulators by themselves or we can say, sure. I'd be glad to take the regulators down. It's better to choose the latter option because either way the attack immediately commences on the town of Additum. The regulators open fire first. But if we choose to help the blades, we are accompanied by a squad of combat armor wearing laser rifle and assault rifle wielding blades soldiers who significantly help during this fight. The problem is that the town's folk of Additum join in the fight and attack the regulators. But the regulators are cutthroat. They have metal armor and high powered weaponry. But the town's folk are wearing no armor and are lucky to be wielding knives. We are stuck at the northern part of this map dealing with Caleb and the regulators up here. But all the while the other regulators scattered all over the town are murdering the town's folk. We have to travel south as fast as we can if we want to save anyone. But unless we have a whole lot of AP and can move many hexes each round or if we have a laser rifle with exceptional range, we are likely to be too slow. It's incredibly hard to save the town's folk of Additum. I played through this three different times and each time the majority of the town's folk died. Including Smitty and Miles, the two merchants necessary to produce the Turbo Plasma Rifle and the Hardened Power Armor, which means if we do this quest before completing the Hydroponics quest, we are locked out of getting the armor and the rifle forever. As we move to the southern edge of the map, this was the only part of the town where I was able to save a few of the townsfolk since there were only two regulators attacking here. Once done if we go back to the Blades Headquarters, we see that Razor is gone and we don't find her anywhere else in town. But at least the regulators are gone, the gun runners are free to sell their goods and we walk away more powerful than ever and with the location of the Meripoza Military Base. Nicole from the followers of the apocalypse really wants us to go to the Cathedral to see what Morpheus is doing over there, but we made a promise to hire the Maxon of the Brotherhood of Steel. And to Jacorian of our Vault, we have got to stop the mutant threat and so first we will head north west to the Meripoza Military Base to finally put an end to the mutant production facility. I publish many videos each and every week so if you want to make sure you don't miss the next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wider ray of colors. They also come on other products as well, like smartphone cases, mugs, pillows, posters, prints, etc. So if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming one of my patrons on Patreon, but more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon this week with the next episode. Finally, on the Meripoza Military Base. I'm going to start with the first episode of the Meripoza Military Base to be released. I'm going to start with the first episode of the Meripoza Military Base to finally put an end to the new Meripoza Military Base.