We've got people down here. They're new to the truck that I've got getting more than 20 units over the on-layer's retreat. We have a look at you as a white element all. We have a new Commatos. After all this, we left in a state like that. Don't move too quickly. Everything's fine, you're safe. You're in the citadel. I was starting to think you might never wake up Despite as your answers to the contrary. I've been coming down here every day to see both you and my daughter It's good that at least one of you has recovered. Wait, where Sarah? Is she okay? Yes, yes. She's fine Oh, she will be. I appreciate your concern for her, but really don't worry You've been through enough However, if we forced Sarah to sacrifice herself at project purity We can instead say about Sarah. It's all right. I understand. I have no doubt she refused to allow you to put yourself in harm's way We all owe her a great debt and I Could not be prouder. What's going on? It's all right. You're safe now. You're in the citadel. What happened? How did I get here? Please relax? Everything is fine You were brought back to the citadel after some sort of energy spike in the purifier You and Sarah were both not unconscious Quite a bit has happened since then. What about the purifier? Did it work indeed? It did The tidal basin is full of fresh clean water now We've been working to see that it's distributed to as many people as possible across the wasteland In fact, I'm hopeful that soon we won't be referring to the wasteland any longer or if we chose to infect the purifier with modified F.E.V. He says yes, it did we've been distributing the water as best we can There have been reports of some problems, but we're dealing with them Without your assistance, this never would have been possible We all owe both you and your father a great deal of thanks. Did we win? Did we beat the enclave? Yes We most certainly did Between your help in destroying their headquarters and their subsequent defeat at the purifier The enclave was thrown into disarray Liberty Prime has been assisting our forces in removing any remaining enclave forces Or if we chose not to destroy Ravenrock leaving president Eden alive Yes, we most certainly did After securing the purifier our forces were sent to deal with the enclave in full The pride and liberty prime made short work of their base of operations and have since been cleaning up pockets of resistance How long was I out? Just about two weeks Don't worry. We've been taking good care of you So what happens now? Well, that's really up to you, isn't it? The brotherhood has a clear plan of action. The remnants of the enclave must be swept away The pride has been working to this end ever since we took the purifier back The only remaining question is whether we can count on you to help us Wow Well, thanks for taking care of me. I'm out of here I wonder if you might be willing to aid us a bit further While we've had a decisive victory the enclave threat hasn't been removed yet No thanks. I've had enough of this That's a shame We could use your assistance And since you've done so much to aid our cause and proven yourself more than capable You have been named a knight of the brotherhood of steel Should you change your mind? Scribe Rothschild can brief you on what's been going on these last few weeks Or we can say is there any way I can help? Indeed We can use every able body available to us To that end I'm going to circumvent our standard recruitment procedures And declare you a knight of the brotherhood of steel Before you do anything else please speak with Scribe Rothschild I'm sure he'll be pleased to see you again He can brief you on the details of the last few weeks As well as where our efforts are focused now I understand that you've been through quite a nordeal But the sooner you can talk to him the sooner we can put an end to all this And with that we complete the quests take it back and optionally project impurity And we begin the quest death from above Where is Sarah? Is she okay? She's right here Unresponsive but stable To see that you've recovered gives me hope Or if Sarah sacrificed herself we can say I'm sorry about Sarah I appreciate that As a soldier and a leader I know that losses are unavoidable in times of war But as a father What else can you tell me about the fight against the enclave As you know I had my reservations about engaging the enclave They did not directly attack us and I believed we had time Time to be cautious There assault on the purifier forced our hand We had no choice but to engage them directly And once that engagement was begun we could do nothing but see it through to the end If they had not considered us a threat before They do now So we have spent the times in juan die last spoke Systematically locating and destroying every bastion of enclave force we can Liberty prime has proven far more successful than any of us could have hoped for What's going on with the purifier? The brotherhood is taken over control of the purifier And is managing distribution of the water to the people of the wasteland If you travel there speak with scribe big slay He's heading up the onsite operation. I have to go now. Please be careful. I would hate to lose you again Two weeks. How is it even possible we've been out for two weeks If Sarah survived we find her lying on a nearby stretcher, but she's unresponsive Sentinel lions is unconscious However, if Sarah sacrificed herself we find the stretcher empty Nearby we find a big yellow barrel labeled aqua pura Aqua pura is that what they call the water from project purity as a certain ring to it And next to this we find a crate of aqua pura inside we can loot a stack of ten aqua pura aqua pura Restores 20 HP. It has the exact same effect as purified water But presumably now that project purity is fixed it's much more plentiful However, if we chose to infect project purity with modified FV We learn that continued consumption of FV-laced water will be fatal Upon drinking a bottle of infected aqua pura we lose strength and intelligence Each bottle we drink thereafter increases the amount of intelligence and strength we lose Until after drinking three bottles We die But President Eden told us that this shouldn't kill us after all we came from a vault We have pure uncorrupted DNA Anyone or anything that has been affected by mutation will be eliminated You will likely be immune thanks to your upbringing in the vault How is it that we could die? But then of course we remember our entire childhood was alive We weren't born in a vault we were born in the Jefferson Memorial Our DNA is wasteland or DNA By siding with President Eden we doom ourselves We can further explore the citadel to see what else has changed And not a whole lot really Most of the characters have the exact same dialogue that we went over when I did my video on the citadel That you can watch here there are only a few exceptions Good to see you So any thoughts on the enclave? They're still cowards far as I'm concerned hiding in their little bunkers flying away first chance they get Will route them out eventually and the initiates that survive will be better trained than any group that came before them Things are going our way no question about it. We've cut off their head now. We just need to carve up the body My thoughts haven't changed. They're still not worthy of discussion Hopefully before long we won't have to think about them at all Plasma weapons certainly aren't saving them now. Are they? We've been able to salvage a good amount of their technology If we can reverse engineer it will be much better off Elder lion said that if we want to continue it to help we need to track down scribe Rothschild We recall his cheery disposition when we met him during the primary plot of Fallout 3 Head into the lab we can track him down Well, it's good to see that you're on your feet again I assume lions is immediately throwing you to the walls Has he told you what's been going on while you've been resting? Oh, I know is that you need my help again. It would seem that way. Yes You said you'd give me the details Well, Owen does have quite a bit on his mind lately is I'm sure you can imagine This is the first time the actions of the brotherhood have affected him in such a Personal manner. I've learned a little bit, but I was hoping you could tell me more Yes, I believe I can Step over here for a moment will you? With that he walks us over to the big map The map still covered with the location of capital wasteland vaults only this time it reveals on-clave positions I'll give you a brief history of what's happened over the last few weeks and what's going on now As you well know this all began with the on-clave's occupation of project purity here Thanks to you their main headquarters here was utterly destroyed They then suffered a second defeat at the purifier or if we chose not to destroy Ravenrock we learn After they're defeated the purifier liberty prime was deployed to their main headquarters here It has been completely destroyed Based on a combination of intelligence and field reports other on-clave locations throughout the wasteland were found Cut off from their leadership. It was expected that their forces would be in complete disarray This has not been the case Based on data and tech gathered from these locations We've determined that the on-clave forces are still maintaining remote communications We isolated the transmissions and found their origin point an old military installation in Rockland to the southwest Our advanced scouts have checked over the area but no easy access to the facility was found So we're making our own access point Paladin Tristan is leading the team setting up forward base in an old car tunnel near the site Once he's settled liberty prime will be deployed Prime's directive is to neutralize their defenses and create an entry point for the team The team will move in eliminate any opposition inside and cut off their transmitter Any relevant data should be brought back here Now did you have any other questions? If there's anything else you'd like to know I'll tell you what I can Otherwise Paladin Tristan will be waiting. I alert him that you're on your way How's the liberty prime holding up performance is exceeding all our expectations He's been especially effective against the on-clave's fatterbirds for which we previously had no counter We're fine tuning his programming as we go but on the whole I'm pleasantly surprised It's as I always suspected Prime's real issue was energy management and when Dr. Lee helped to solve that problem well The rest was easy What's going on with the purifier? It was determined that the brotherhood should directly oversee the purifier as so as to prevent any mishaps Scribe Bigsley was placed in charge of the operation and is directly overseeing our efforts I have to go now don't hurry back So even if we sided with President Eden and kept him alive instead of destroying Ravenrock by continuing with broken steel Liberty prime kills him and it sounds like the brotherhood have taken over the purifier But what about Madison Lee and her scientists? Didn't they have a say in the matter? This was what Madison Lee had feared This was why she was so reluctant to accept brotherhood help from the very beginning before we were even born Looks like her predictions have come true and the brotherhood have taken it over But maybe it's for the greater good after all its own lions we can trust him Right So Rothschild gave a submission to meet up with the guy named Paladin Tristan at the Rockland car tunnel We've got a track down and stop out all remnants of the enclave But you know what? We're James's child What would James do? Well James would make sure that the water produced by project purity was really getting to those who need it So taking a quick detour We'll head to the Jefferson Memorial to check in with Madison Lee and the scientists there and this Scribe a big zle to see how the project is going along the way we can check in with good old three dog to hear how he's doing Two weeks It's been two weeks since our boys and power armor kick those enclave bastards out of project purity and started that baby Chugging now y'all remember James right father 101 Well three dog is learned that back of the day James wife had a dream See she was a scientist too worked on that project You know what you want it the waters of life free and clean Fanny and all god Ain't that beautiful, but even better. It's finally happened the water is clean and hell yeah, it's free Just a little patience children as I speak the brotherhood is working with rivet city security to get that fresh water to the wasteland The caravans are coming So get jick-lasses ready children this rounds on me Upon arrival we see an astonishing sight Something our father only ever dreamed of The tidal basin is blue the water is pure the Jefferson Memorial pumps gallon after gallon of purified water into the tidal basin Free water radiation free water for everyone It's everything he and Madison Lee had worked so hard and sacrificed so much for We see that the brotherhood is installed some sort of infrastructure outside the Jefferson Memorial There are big yellow barrels filled with aqua pura stacked all over the place and we see a water pump Filling these barrels with purified water from the tidal basin nearby We find a brotherhood of steel soldier with a flamer Burning myrler corpses how many of these damn things were living down there Just my luck to pull myrler duty three days in a row I got to finish burning these floaters before they fall up the water God what a stink The purified waters killing all the myrler's living in the basin Lucky me I get to pull out the floaters and roast them You may want to stand back unless you've got a strong stomach There's another guy up on a platform taking pot shots at myrler's in the water Hey feel free to take a shot at any lurks you see in the basin They're all dying Don't like the clean water I guess Easier just pop them in the head otherwise they die on the bottom and don't float up until they're good and right This is worse than the tree duty and we see rivets city caravans All right then The end of few days Well Oh Let me get Your first time on caravan duty Yeah Know what You think we can handle it Believe me you guys aren't the only ones who know how to put down a raider Take it easy I'm sure you'll be fine Just like all the other caravans Whatever All right Let's move it out Okay then Come on Suki Ji up now So looks like the brotherhood is working with the rivets city to transport water to the wasteland by caravan But what did she say about raiders? Are raiders trying to steal this free water? What Let's see if we can figure out exactly what's going on here Heading inside the Jefferson Memorial gift shop We see water pales stacked up right outside this door Well, they did have a lot of water to move Heading down the hallway Wow we see the things have changed Turning left into the snook we find a bunch of ammo boxes and first aid boxes Chalked full of ammunition and kems Then moving west we see that the brotherhood has piled all sorts of scrap in this hallway Filing cabinets, shelves, broken terminals, pipes, marble pillars All sorts of rubbish And they blocked up the pathway to the drain pipe Huh All right well hope no one ever has to go there for repairs Heading towards the gift shop we find four scribes Sitting down in chairs just outside Soon one stands up picks up a pile of books and holotapes And walks into the gift shop Describe big sleeve I've finished the corrections to the map Indeed you have Much improved Thank you sir One small thing though Sir Megaton is west of here Sir that's where I've drawn it Is that so? Uh oh oh oh My mistake I must have been looking at it upside down It's all right sir I'd know you're probably exhausted Have you ever seen a map? Nor Points Oh Sir I Try again Sorry sir The brotherhood only accepts the best in the brightest Don't they Yes sir Man it is good The boss is in one of his moods again No kidding You know I didn't sign up with the brotherhood to be an errand boy Think I might just not show up tomorrow I mean what's the worst that gonna happen? I get fired Sir This better be important Whoa okay I'll be back later on then Sir Not No I'll try to get some other time Sir the lab coats reported delay in the next batch of water What now Something about a recent power outage they blame us Those ungrateful sons of bitches I needed to temporarily Temp-O Rarely Divert power while we brought additional security systems online Just thought you should know sir about the delay Yes Of course Thank you I'll leave you be sir Only someone else wasn't in line right behind you We'll go on then Good luck big Slee we have faith in you We should get Get back to work Gee whiz And now it's our turn to talk with this charming fellow Hey You ready for me? It's wondering what you'd show up Did lines give you a little congratulatory speech Then you won't mind if I don't offer you one Thanks to you and that little friend of yours cranking up a purifier My life's become a living hell But the heroes of the wasteland probably don't care about that And a hearty hello to you too, Jerk Oh I'm sorry What's that being rude just now? Maybe I should congratulate you on getting through the door After all you did have to trip over that never-ending line of people waiting to get in here I'm scrimed big Slee And I'm more than a little busy I don't know what you're talking about What's this about a purifier? If you want to play make believe Fine go right in I got real problems in the real world to deal with Everybody's got something for good old big Slee to do So yeah if you're done wasting my time I'm sorry who are you? Excuse me I'm big Slee And I'm just a tad stressed out Perhaps you saw that little line outside my door You're not the only one with problems pal Right I mean I heard about your dad Sorry kid I don't mean to sound unsympathetic Really But if you understood the pressure You know the place land Imagine trying to get fresh water to every known settlement Without getting it stolen by raiders or our mutants Now imagine doing that Without any trained soldiers or military resources Because they've all been exhausted Finding a little war with the enclave Yeah That's my job Not to mention the mountain of crap I get from all the lab coats Running around underfoot Sounds like you have your hands fall Everyone was so excited about that purifier Project purity dance and project purity dance But did anyone stop to ask Hey What are we gonna do with all that clean water Well guess who gets to fill in that tiny detail It'd be one thing if I had support but that That little war with the enclave Is depleted much of the brotherhoods resources And to top it off I have to be mommy to a bunch of lab coats Not my problem Go look for that Yeah Whatever Now leave me alone I need to think What? I gotta be Julian things to deal with at the moment And wasting my time with you is not one of them I wish I could help But I don't work for free The brotherhood didn't always work for free either I can respect the man who earns his keep Your reputation proceeds So we won't need to conduct an interview I'm sure we can find a mutually beneficial arrangement Is there anything I can do to lend a hand? Really Well, there's plenty of things I need help with But most of it's pushing papers And knocking scents into giant egg heads And task for any acolyte really I'm sure I could put your experience And talents to far better use If I get paid I might lend a hand What's the job? Hmm Well, I have two jobs actually How can I help? Well, I've got Rivet City water caravans needing help With some unusually organized bandits Need someone to go investigate what that's all about And then there's Megaton They want more aquapura I just sent a shipment to them Need someone to go visit Megaton and see what their problem is So what's the deal with Rivet City's caravans Don't get me started about Rivet City They feel entitled to everything Always whining about how They're our scientists and all that crap Like they did us a favor Thought the security deal we'd worked out with them would be, you know, a win-win And my hope was they'd completely take over the water caravan at Scorts by now But I got Officer La Pellateeer Bitchin' about an organized bandit syndicate Guess they don't have the chops after all I need you to go visit Officer La Pellateeer lend a hand I'm not a fan of Rivet City or risking my life Good luck with all that I'm starting to lose my patience with you If you aren't here to help then please Leave Look kid, I really don't have time for your games If you're here to help, great If not then I really need you to find someone else to best On second thought, I'll lend Officer La Pellateeer a hand But fees may be incurred Yes? Yes of course you'll be paid Go see what she means, lend a hand, take care of whatever their problem is You'll have your reward I'll see what assistance I can offer Rivet City security Great Hopefully you can get them straightened out We really can't do this without them And with that we begin the quest, protecting the waterway So about Megaton, you think maybe Megaton is trying to con you out of more water? I don't know what to think I got lions breathing down my neck about it though Apparently Megaton's sending him nasty letters demanding a shipment I just sent them a week supply A month's if they ration Look, if you can straighten out Megaton so I get lions off my back I'll make it worth your while I'm not gonna help you with Megaton I've got better things to do I'm a very busy man I only have time for people who have time for me As long as I get paid, you'll get your problem solved Of course you'll be paid Most of our assets have been exhausted by war with the enclave But I'm a resourceful fella Don't you worry about that Get Megaton straightened out And I assure you you won't be disappointed by my Or rather the brotherhoods generosity I'll see what I can do about Megaton Really? That's great I'm sorry I can't offer you any support in this All our resources are tied up at the moment Good luck Oh and of course I have a little something for your efforts If you're successful Stay safe out there And with that we begin the quest Holy water You know this sure seems like a whole lot of trouble when you're just giving the water away And why don't you try selling the water Many of us keep asking that same question The brotherhood isn't a postal service We have important things to do And we need caps and technology to do it Lions is on some kind of mission Has he forgotten about the enclave? That's our priority But yeah, things are being done to offset the cost of lions little pet purity project If we have good karma we can try to pass a karma check I know you've got something set up Don't worry I won't tell your superiors Look It's not that I don't trust you I know you're trustworthy but you see that's just it I don't think you're capable of discretion Nothing immoral is going on but I'm already in a lot of hot water with the brotherhood I need to be careful with what I say And to whom But if we have neutral or bad karma Yeah, you don't seem like the goody goody type But don't spread this around So Or we can get the exact same information by passing a difficult speech check To say so you guys have something set up on the side We do what we can Take for example this ghoul griffin He wanted to purchase a bunch of water Oh What the hell does that droopy irradiated full need with pure water Things he can sell it in underworld moron But he's the only one who's offered to pay for water in caps and Technology And what lions doesn't know won't hurt him But there's plenty of water to go around And I can use it to pay rivet city to provide security for all the caravans We can't escort ourselves Unlucky he came along Oh, he's selling the free water to a ghoul from under city Wow, they don't give under city the free water Oh right they're ghouls and the brotherhood doesn't like ghouls I hadn't thought of that Whoops With that bit of information we begin the quest The amazing aquacura Hey, I've got some questions about the project purity operation Well, by all means I'd love to answer some questions I've got nothing better to do Where is Dr. Lee? She apparently decided to pursue more interesting projects up north in the commonwealth Real reason she couldn't handle us scribes Improving upon her work She's the kind of woman who needs to be in charge of Everything Good luck to her out there in the wasteland It's a long walk to the commonwealth Can't say she'll be missed Oh, oh, oh, oh And here we get foreshadowing to the events of Fallout 4 All the way back here in the broken steel DLC Nice So do you know why they call it aquacura? Um, because it's not irradiated Really? You couldn't work that one out for yourself Oh, okay Well, how long do you think it'll take to purify the whole title basin? I don't think anyone really knows the answer to that It seems to be going rather quickly though Ever think about letting people bring in empty bottles and just Fill up on their own? I'm sure you can imagine the chaos if we just let anyone who wanted to wait into the basin and fill up a jug Frankly, there just isn't the time or the resources to deal with that crowd control nightmare Is it hard bottling all that water or is it all done by machines? You take a bottle, you dunk it underwater and Gluck, gluck, glug it fills up amazing But you're right, I'm machine would help but All the scribes are busy reverse engineering on clay here A machine that puts water in bottles Just isn't on anyone's priority list at the moment I was gonna ask you something, but I forgot what it was Yeah, well, when you remember what it was you were going to ask Take it up with one of the other scribes Okay Thanks Oh, I remember, might if I ask you some questions about your role in all of this Sure, it's not like I'm gonna be able to get much done today anyway Ask away Hey, uh, no offense, but uh, you look pretty tired I literally can't remember the last time I got sleep I must have dosed off recently though if the D rule on my desk is any indication So how'd you get stuck with this job? I follow orders, but I'm not exactly a yes man I figure a scribes job is to find the devil in the details Consequently, I seldom get promoted I think Elder Lions finally had his fill of people questioning him And while scribe Rothschild and I usually see eye to eye on things, um It's apparently time to set an example for those who ask too many questions So what order of scribes are you part of? Yeah That's a long story actually Oh, well, I'm not in the mood for a long story Never mind Well, I'm interested so continue I started out in the swords I got the output of a few laser rifles Apparently some initiates couldn't handle the extra power You got hurt Then I joined the shields Bodich wasn't all that pleased with me proving him in his theories on force field residents were bit antiquated And I found myself among the quills Januson refuses to accept any fact that conflicts with their rose colored optimistic views She likes to assign contradictory personalities to field operations Take for example myself here or yearling Exiled to that a cursive library You know, I used to think Rothschild and I were on the same page Turns out he's happy to blindly follow the old man's orders like the rest of them Oh, so that's why yearling is there You know, there's my backfire on them We keep on finding all of these disgruntled brotherhood scribes in the far reaches of the wastes Might give us a bad impression of the brotherhood Hey, Bigsley, what's your take on Elder Lions? It's probably best if I don't answer that question Oh my We see the cards in this tower beginning to fall even here Well, I have to go now Bigsley Good Use a moment to myself Oh The spore guy he just needs some sleep, but that moment to himself doesn't last long The caravans return Excellent Did anyone die? No sir Even better Hey them and send them out again Yes sir Sir What? Okay I'll swing by another time No Sir, some messages arrived for you And And What sir Were any of the messages important? I don't know sir, I thought I should bring them straight to you You didn't read them? No sir, I Well Who are they from? I don't know sir I thought Can't you see I'm busy Sorry sir I'm up to my eyeballs Invoices and clipboards with God knows what on them in the maps So many useless maps drawn by children apparently And requisition requests and I'll get it Is there anyone who doesn't want something from me? And The message is always with the messages Sorry Really Am I the only one who can do anything around here? Sorry sir, I can see you're busy. I'll leave you You're right, I'm busy Sorry sir Wait, just need the messages I'll be with them later Yes sir Next time Look them over first I need you to be a filter for all the inconsequential crap That otherwise lands on my desk Yes sir Go now, take short break Still a few minutes for yourself God knows we all deserve Yes sir, thank you sir Get out of here Shoot Oh, this poor man Bigsley's office here is one of the best decorated sets in all of Fallout 3 Look at this place The clutter is absolutely amazing I wish I had the ability to decorate my megaton home like this Paper scattered on the floor Books and clipboards absolutely everywhere He's got a safe but it's not locked Inside we don't really find much He's a Nukikola fan Lots of Nukikola bottles all over the place And two emocrates on the bottom of a wonderfully decorated shelf But we'd have to steal from it If we crouch down and sneak up behind his terminal We can hack it without being detected It's a very easy hack Inside we find a number of entries Starting with mission reports We can read the Big Town Report Big Town Mission Report Mission Failure Am bushed by Mutants Lost one initiate, Caravan Driver and Mule Survivor in Critical Condition at Citadel Wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait There are Mules in the Fallout Universe We already know from Fallout 1 and 2 that horses are extinct How could Mules exist? Maybe he wasn't being literal here Maybe he was simply referring to a Brahmin as a Mule But wow the Mutants are still that much of a threat You'd think the Brotherhood would have done something after we told them That Vault 87 was a super mutant factory And the next one, Rivet City Report Mission successful We ought to just build a pipeline Actually I kind of agree with him At this point they might as well just build a pipeline Backing out of mission reports we can move on to requisitions Available assets One Plasma Rifle Two Power Armor Suites Four Assault Rifles One Minigun One Missile Launcher With only three Missiles Six Medkits And 20 Plus Kems Various Gosh they really are on hard times We have more gear back at our Megaton home Maybe we should just donate to the Brotherhood of Steel And finally we find Petty Cash Account 24 Caps No, that's not a typo Wow Maybe Bigsley is justified feeling the way he does Moving on to Logs Day 1 This place is a total disaster Hopefully I'll get this distribution system set up soon And I can get back to the Citadel Shouldn't take more than two weeks I've already been in consultation with the Rivet City Council They have tentatively agreed to take over the water distribution network for us Once we've worked out the kinks But something tells me there's going to be more than a few of those Well two weeks later And we see that his prediction was correct In the next one in competence I think Roth Child is really upset with me this time He sent me scribes who apparently failed their cartography training I don't have time for this Well yeah, if a scribe doesn't even know what North is In the next one work with me people I'm getting practically no cooperation Roth Child ignores my messages And the Knights stuck with delivery duties are more than a little resentful I don't want to have to send them out any more than they want to go Yikes does no one at the Brotherhood support elder lions First Roth Child then Bigsley now the Knights It's like no one wants to be here In the next one Dr. Lee Dr. Lee left today Went up North to the Commonwealth What a witch She couldn't handle the fact that even these morons Roth Child sent me work capable of improving up on her work It's no wonder she never got the thing working without help in the first place Anyway, tell with Dr. Lee Good riddance Gosh everyone is so hard on Dr. Lee Am I the only one that kind of sympathizes with her? I mean yeah she was a jerk But she loses James twice Gives up her life at Rivet City to follow him to Project Purity Only to have the Brotherhood snatched up after it starts working I mean yeah I can see why she laughed In the next first casualty First casualty reported today I know compared to the death tolls of the war it'll barely register back at the citadel But I still hate being responsible Even indirectly for another man's death It brings back unpleasant memories Oh gosh poor Bigsley Maybe he's suffering from PTSD Then more Oh wow Bigsley He's a rider Missing an action So many caravans missing an action The Rivet City escorts I can understand They haven't had much blooding Hold up in that boat of theirs Sure I've got more initiates than Full Fledged Knights Since it's all hands in the war But still Even a couple of heavily armed initiates Should be able to handle escorting a mule and drivers across the wastes Okay So he was using mule figuratively I see In the next one, Griffin So this ghoul from Underworld Griffin offered a pay me for shipments of water Lions wouldn't approve but I don't care We need the caps and the technology he's offering I can use it to fund the other deliveries One day lions will come to a senses and agree that selling the water is the smartest thing Let's supply and demand fuel the delivery system This bleeding heart charity of his is going to bring down the brotherhood We're at war We shouldn't be expending resources on delivering water At any rate we can do that after we wipe out the enclave Sometimes I wonder if lions has gone senile I should delete this entry in case someone important audits my files Askrew it It might be time for me to leave the brotherhood anyway Not sure where I'd go though Maybe the outcasts? Yeah he started to sound like an outcast This is another way to start the quest The amazing aquacura If we couldn't pass the karma or speech check When talking with Bigsley In the next one where are they? Where the hell is everyone? So many caravans still missing an action Next, the peloteer The peloteer keeps sending me dispatches requesting additional resources I don't have anything for her Not sure they'll be able to handle this water distribution after all Great I'll be stuck here forever And then more What is this Bigsley or Diary? It's only been two weeks Next in Megaton I'm ignoring Megaton's request for more water until I can determine what the hell happened The caravan reported unsuccessful I have no reason to doubt the report So wait, they successfully delivered water to Megaton But Megaton says they never received it Are they lying or did someone steal it? In the next one awake Heard that kid who helped start the purifier finally woke up Oh, that's me Wow, he wrote this and a few others In the short time it took me to get from the citadel all the way here Because I just woke up All right And the next missing shipments I think Lyon suspects something He must have a plant here How the hell would he have known about the missing water shipments I've been stonewalling him How the hell does he have time to worry about us With that war going on This must be in reference to the shipments of water he's been selling to Griffin Has Lyon's been inspecting them that closely? It is free water after all Next, Project purity scientists I'm seriously considering murdering these Project purity lab coats Ungrateful, whining Good for nothing, bothersome ingrates the lot of them Really? With Lyon they're still whining Oh yeah Daniel Egan Court I almost forgot Next, more Oh, okay Only three Here's the end Under Lyk I wish someone would fix that damn Lyk The dripping is driving me crazy Oh, let's see if we can find it In the next so tired I don't remember the last time I slept for more than 30 minutes I'm so damn tired Apparently I just nodded off and hit my face on the keyboard I can't take this anymore I like this guy And finally, new personal mantra I give up This is hopeless Oh bigsly Oh, we gotta help this guy Heading out of the gift shop We see the Project purity scientists Moving into the next room Here we find some familiar faces Including Alex Dargen Hey, good to see you I heard you had a bit of a problem getting the purifier started Sorry about that We're looking into exactly what happened Anyway, it's great to see on your feet again We wouldn't be here now without you Where's Dr. Lee? Oh, well she uh After what happened to you when the purifier started I think she just kind of had enough It was really hard on her, you know First losing your dad Then the enclave And then the brotherhood taking over here It was really just too much for her So I guess she packed up a few things and headed off north Towards the Commonwealth Rumor has it there's a scientific community up there I sure hope she finds what she's looking for Oh she'll find it all right But that's a story for another day What are you doing here Alex? Me? Well, I figured after all the work we already put into this place We could help the brotherhood keep things running smoothly It's worked out pretty well so far I think They're not necessarily the friendliest bunch But I've been doing what I can to get along with them I have to go now Catch you around Next we see Oh look, it's Daniel Agoncourt Look, I'm busy Can we do this some other time? Where's Dr. Lee? You haven't heard? I guess I shouldn't be surprised She basically folded After the purifier was started She decided she'd had enough and headed up north Said she was looking for the Commonwealth Like she'd ever make it on her own Tell you what You run into her? You tell her Daniel sends his regards Oh it's you You're not authorized to be here Hey, Daniel sends his regards That's a load of crap and we both know it Well, what are you doing Daniel? What's it look like? I'm doing my work Same as I've always done These brotherhood scribes Wouldn't know what to do with half the equipment here If their lives depended on it I'm basically running this place from behind the scenes No matter what bigsly tells you I have to go now Yeah sure Whatever Well, it's good to see that some things haven't changed Same old agon court Two weeks has been good to the Jefferson Memorial All of these containers have respawned We find ammunition and chems on a shelf to the north There is a terminal against the southern wall But we can't access it Going to the southern section We see a shelf against a pillar with a ton of ammunition Four ammo canisters and a first aid kit And we see that the doorway to the basement is now blocked up Looks like we'll never again be able to visit the room Where we were born Then we can open a door to the east to the rotunda We see that the scientists have moved in a bunch of equipment And we don't recognize any of these scientists They're just generic project purity scientists So much to do So much to do I wish those scribes would leave us alone They'd just get in the way Perhaps they came from rivet city Heading up the stairs we see That the murky water that at once Had obscured the statue of Thomas Jefferson Is now clear and pure Faceless making this more complicated than it needs to be Sorry, can't stop the chat We don't find much up here Just one first aid kit On our way out We can peek into Bigsley's office See how he's doing I just came back from the citadel Oh And how would you visit? Did lines treat me to tea? Disgits He asked about that shipment again And what did you tell our illustrious leader? I told him things were being taken care of not to worry And how did he take that? The same way he took at the last ten times that he asked And I dodged the question Sir, permission to speak freely And a time for code calls and bullshit Speak as freely as you like, just speak quickly I don't think he's going to stop asking I think he suspects something The man should be focused on fighting the enclave Or is he forgotten about them? So if a few shits of water go missing Damn And sir, don't worry It's my ass that's on the line Yes sir Oh, one of the scientists fell off some scaffolding and broken arm And how the hell is that? By problem? They're complaining we've confiscated all the medical supplies Well, I need something to pay the care of end-drivers with I ran out of cigarettes and booze last week So what do I tell them? Me besides, go soak your heads in the basin Sir? Fine Grab some meds from the supply but tell them that's it Could have brawling's or something Yes sir And hang a sign outside my door that reads Welcome to the baby's citters of steel That's funny sir Not really Important messages for you sir Wonderful, click them on my desk Anywhere in particular sir Look for the folder labeled I don't give damn Right, sorry sir Sir, the next shipment of water is buttoned up and ready to go Excellent Glad I don't have to oversee that anymore You're welcome sir I'm glad something's going right for a change But mercenary caravan has returned They ran into some trouble Sir Spry bigsly Is everything alright sir? What? Oh yeah um, I'm just a little tired What was this about then running into trouble? Way laid by raiders or was it mutants They want additional compensation for losses and unexpected expenditures It's the goddamn wasteland what the hell did they expect I don't know sir. Should I tell them to go away? I wish but No, I need them Here's some of the few the bother to come back at all Already bunched this group almost as good as our own men I see well. What should I do with them about their demands for compensation? Anyone die I don't think so no Oh, that's good Some bottle caps in How much is left in the petty cash box? They want plasma weapons What? They saw an initiate lugging a crate to the armory Fucking hell Damn it Sir Those weapons were to go to rivet city but it wasn't her A rifle or a nader too But only if they agreed to take a shipment immediately to Big Town Yes sir And what kind of name is Big Town anyway I don't know sir Go on don't keep our guests waiting any longer. I work together Yes sir Ah now I know that I put that in clipboard Sir Right sorry sir You stay strong there big sleigh We hear that dripping sound that Bigsley was complaining about on his terminal Trying to follow the noise we trace it to the bathrooms Oh there it is it's a big ol' leak But even if we have a high repair skill we can't interact with it or repair it Sorry Bigsley tried And when ready we can head on our way We have quite a list of things to do We can head to rivet city to see what help they need there Head to Megaton to find out what happened to the missing water shipments Track down this Griffin ghoul in Underworld to see exactly what he's doing with this water he's buying from the brotherhood And then of course there's always the task that Rothschild gave us To meet with Kristen at the Rockland Car Tunnel We'll pick up with one of these tasks in my next episode I publish many Fallout videos each and every week on my channel So if you don't want to miss the next episode Be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications Consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes And in a wide array of colors You can find them on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc So if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below Or you can click here If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way Consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube But more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos