In our last episode, we advanced the primary plot significantly, so spoilers ahead if you missed my last episode. We finally made it to Vault 13, which we discovered was filled with talking death claws and we recovered the geck. But when we arrived back at Royo, we found Hakunan dying, and we discovered that the on-clave had kidnapped our entire tribe. It was then that Goris, our new death-cloth companion, sensed that his people back at Vault 13 were in trouble, and he high-tailed it over there. When we returned to Vault 13, we found all the death claws dead. After watching some security footage, we discovered that the on-clave arrived at Vault 13 as well, and killed all the death claws. Now before Hakunan died, he told us that he overheard the on-claves say one word, Navarro. But we also learned from Goris that the on-clave had been interested in a nearby military base. On our way to Navarro, we stumbled upon this military base. Could the on-clave have brought our tribes men and women here? The only way to find out is to explore it. And we arrive amongst a number of tents. These tents appear to have attracted wolves. We see a number of wolves wandering around here, but they seem to be ignoring us for now. In the bottom tent, we find a copy of Dean's electronics on the ground, and in the footlocker, a couple of stem packs. I went to the cart to unload some stuff, but it was then that the wolves became a little too interested in our party. They surrounded us and began to howl. And then they attacked. But their attack was unfortunate for them. They didn't expect to have to fight a giant death claw. We make quick work of them. And then next tent, we find another footlocker on the ground. Inside a hollow tape, MbHoloDisk5, and a survey map. Examining the survey map, it looks like a geoglacial survey map of the Bay Area. After reading it, we discover that there seems to be a city just west of the military base. And we log it on our map. This city is none other than the ruins of San Francisco. And it too is on our way to Navarro. Then downloading the hollow disk data to our Pip Boy, we can read Military Base Outside to CHQ. And headquarters perhaps, our team of scientists has finished testing the sample obtained from the base. It has been confirmed as 99% pure. You can expect the sample to arrive shortly. As expected, the worker population has mutated rapidly once exposed to the pure source. Heavy but acceptable losses are reported. I've ordered the evacuation of the base. As soon as the last person is out, we'll blow the entrance to the base and seal the bastard's in. Colonel Sanders? Okay. So we're too late. The enclave has been here and left. But since we're here, let's try to find out exactly what the enclave was doing here. In the tent furthest to the north, we find an ammunition crate with a number of rockets inside. We go to the bed another footlocker with a Dean's electronics and a cattle prod. In the last tent, we find one more footlocker with some small energy cells. Heading through the gate, we see some pipes buried in rubble on the southern side of the space and moving towards the entrance we realize that we've heard of this place. This place, with the whitewashed brick exterior, sounds remarkably like the Miraposa Military Base, that our ancestor, the Vaultweller, explored. I'm sure he told the people of Arroyo all about his adventures here and what he found inside. FEV. This FEV is what the master was using to experiment on the super mutants. And we learned from Goris that it's what the enclave used to create their talking death claws. Now the holotape that we found at the entrance begins to make sense. They recovered a sample that was 99% pure. Perhaps this is where the enclave got their FEV. But we see that just as the holotape said, the entrance is caved in with rubble. They blew it. Looks like we won't be able to explore it. But it's then we notice a mine car just outside the door still on some tracks leading inside. I wonder if we can use this to our advantage. But activating it, nothing moves. The cart by itself isn't going to be enough to open the mine. It was then ahead an idea. Dynamite. Heading back to the highway man, we can grab a stick at Dynamite and place it right before the rocks. After setting the timer and stepping away. Nothing happens. But then we get another idea. Examining the mine cart, the mine cart looks functional. We could probably push it. It's then we notice a metal pole, lying on the sidewalk just south of the mine cart. Using the metal pole on the cart, we attach the metal pole to the cart. Attaching dynamite to the metal pole might give it enough power to bust open the entrance. Ah, that's how it works. Grabbing another stick of dynamite, we can attach it to the metal pole. We attach the dynamite to the metal pole, then we can give it a push. We push the cart down the tracks and we gain 5,000 experience. That's it. We have opened the military base. There is a shack just outside. Inside we find a couple of crates. One has dynamite in it. Oh, well I guess I didn't need to use mine. The next one has more dynamite in it at a sledgehammer. The final one has three coils of rope. When ready, we can head inside the Mera Poza military base. Inside we find a pile of skeletons and the corpse of an enclave soldier. On his body, we find another holotape, a radio, a grenade and more dynamite. After downloading the holodisk to our pit boy, we can read Military Base Level 1. This is Captain Pickard reporting at Checkpoint 1. Contact with Checkpoints 2 and 3 has been cut off. We can only assume the worst. The monsters are swarming up the mineshafts. All efforts to delay them have failed. We'll try to hold them at this position as long as we can. But looks like Colonel Sanders blew the entrance, trapping him and the others inside. What kind of monsters could have killed them? Stepping forward. We get attacked! Oh, it's just a rat. Immediately before us, we find another enclave corpse, but it just has a ham radio. The passages on either side are mostly caved in. Because of this, the layout has drastically changed from the time the vault weller explored it, so we don't know our bearings. Moving west for now, we kill a number of lats along the way. Until we find a generator. This generator looks badly damaged, but we think we might be able to repair it. And sure enough, using our repair skill, we can repair the generator. We gain 1500 experience and the lights turn on. We see another enclave body lying in this doorway, but there's nothing here. Moving forward, we get attacked by a couple of pig rats. They look like pig rats, however, our pit boy describes them as mutated beasts. Either way, they're not too difficult. After clearing the mutated beasts, we see a computer room to the right, but these computers are non-functional. And at the very end, we find a room with a large elevator, with piles of skeletons lying on the ground before it. There are a stack of blue boxes here. We find some rockets inside. Looks like we need to go down this elevator. But before we do, we can retrace our steps and continue exploring north. There was another hallway over here that we didn't explore. After following it north, the path turns east, and it's here where we find a super mutant. Kind, grumble, no hurt you. Oh, was he talking to us? Okay, well, we'll remove our weapons for now, perhaps this super mutant is nice. Ooh, you are big, Mousey. Make good dinner for Brundel. Oh, no, you lied. He attacks. But there's only one of him. And Brundel, the super mutant rat chef, quickly dies. After killing him in the rodents in this wing, we find some spiked knuckles on his inventory, but that's it. And there's nothing at the end of this hallway. It ends in a dead end. This leaves one path forward to head west then north and take the elevator to floor number two. On the second floor, we arrive amongst even more skeletons. We see a path to the east and a path to the south. Lime on the ground before us is another enclave corpse. He has no holodesk, just a radio and a laser pistol. We'll start by moving south. Opening a door, we find another enclave corpse. He has another radio in this time, a plasma pistol. Even further south, we find another stack of blue boxes inside we find a Stimpec and more rockets. Then, opening a door at the far southern end of this hallway, we find... Oh, four super mutants. And these guys aren't wielding spiked knuckles. They've got power fists, flamers. Gatling guns. This is an incredibly challenging fight. Because not only do we anger these four in this room, but the noise of our battle is close enough to the mutants elsewhere on this floor that we alert them. And so even if we survive a battle with these four, we get trapped in this room, rushed from behind by a super mutant org. I found battling in this hallway to be very problematic. As companions would plant themselves right in the doorways, making it impossible for me to get by them and tricky to shoot around them. But even if we survive this second onslaught, another word of super mutants comes around the corner. And by this time, Cassidy and Goris were running so far ahead that they were getting ganged up on. So I decided to change my strategy. I told all my companions to stay close to me. Now Goris' combat controls make charge his only option. So I tried to keep him near to me by ordering him to attack only the target I'm attacking. Instead of going south, I tried to go east. Here we find another split. Continuing east or going south, I tried by going south first, but there were just so many super mutants in this room that they piled into the corridors. Ganging up on my companions, and I kept losing them. To make matters worse, there are even more super mutants in the eastern room. And while I was engaged fighting this ward, they came up from behind. So I revised my strategy yet again. Instead of going down either of the southern hallways, I went all the way to the east. This, I believed, would be far enough a way to kill the super mutants here without alerting the others. We find them in a southern most room. Opening the door? We can attack. It's tricky they do wield flamers, and they blast as soon as we open the door. But as there's only two of them, we can quickly kill them. But I was wrong. I wasn't far enough from the others. The super mutants in the southern middle room, hear the noise and come up to attack. But the hallway is narrow, and they have to come up single file. Gauras frustrated my plans by charging ahead, and so racing forward, I met them in the doorway. Here, Sulek, Cassidy and I were able to take care of a few, while Gauras was preoccupied. Here, three super mutants ganged up on Gauras. By focusing on one at a time, we were able to kill all three before Gauras died. But we weren't done. More super mutants came from the southern room. So moving south, we can take care of the final lot that hurt our battle. With these dead, we see a few more super mutants still in the southern room, but they were too far away to hear the sounds of battle. But the mutants in the southwestern room heard it. So turning around, we moved west. These mutants came down the hallway single file, and so we focused all our energy on them one at a time. After killing these two, there were only four left, two in the southeastern room, and two in the southern middle room. Moving to the southeastern room first, we took care of these guys. Then, moving to the southern middle room, which served as their barracks, we killed the final two mutants. And without the floors cleared, and we can loot. This middle room has a number of lockers, starting right to left. In the first locker, we find rockets. In the second locker, we find my profusion cells. The third locker has Flamer Fuel, and the fourth locker. Hey, that's a suit of T-51B Power Armor. Had last. After nearly 30 episodes of this game, we finally get a suit of Power Armor. This suit of Power Armor also grants a Strength bonus. Plus 3 to be exact, which increases our Strength enough to make full use of the Turbo Plasma Rifle. Finally, I won't be underperforming with this sucker. It also grants plus 30 Radiation Resistance. It has a base damage ratio of 40 and a damage threshold of 12. That's better compared to my Combat Armor Mark II, which has a DR of 40 and a DT of 6. So it has twice the damage threshold. And it has significantly increased DR against laser damage. 80, with a DT of 18, compared to the Combat Armor Mark II's 65 with a DT of 9. So this Power Armor is a huge improvement. The next locker has a rocket launcher and some rockets. And the final locker has some thrown explosives. If we haven't found a power fist by this point, we find a number of them on the corpses of the Super Mutants. We take these to Aldrinan for free upgrades. The upgraded Mega Power fist is what I gave to Suleik for his endgame weapon. In the barracks, we find a number of foot lockers by the bunk beds. One has Micro Fusion Cells, a Stimpak and a Grenade. The next has Small Energy Cells, Cash and a Stimpak. The next has 10mm ammunition. Then we find one with rockets and another Throne Explosive. Then we find another with Stimpak's Small Energy Cells and Money. One with rockets, 5mm ammunition, a Stimpak and more money. Moving west, we find another enclave corpse lying in the middle of the hallway. On his body are more explosives and another holotape. After downloading the data to our Pip Boy, we can read Military Base Level 2. Checkpoint 3 is under attack. We've shut down the mine elevator as a precaution, but I can hear them coming up the mineshaft. Holy crap! Huge, ugly, green creatures are climbing out of the lower levels. This must be what the brass is after, some kind of super soldier. As fast as we shoot them, two more climb out of the mineshaft and the ones we shoot get up and keep coming at us. We need reinforce. But apparently he was killed before he could finish his sentence. Moving south, we can loot more bodies and we find a final enclave corpse, but there's nothing on it. Finally, heading east, we can loot the lockers in the southeastern room. In the first we find a Stimpak and two pieces of rad away. In the second we find some antidote and buff out. And in the final one we find Radix, a doctor's bag and men tats. There is a room to the north over here and in this room we find a wall locker. Inside we find five super Stimpaks, a tool, two first aid manuals and a stack of five Stimpaks. With the second floor explored, cleared and looted, we can head back to the elevator and take it down to floor number three. When we arrive we find more enclave bodies. On one we find a radio, a cattle prod, some money and another holotape. After downloading the data to our pit boy, we can read Military Base Level 3. Sergeant Brax reporting at Checkpoint 3. Everything is normal just like yesterday in the day before that. I don't know why the brass has a scarting these wretched minors. They are so scrawny and weak they can barely lift a pickaxe. Anyway, the pencil next passed by a while ago with some kind of sample. They seemed pretty excited about it. Do you know if they found what they were looking for? Maybe we can finally get out of this forsaken place. It gives me the creeps. Hold on a second, another load is coming up the mineshaft. My God! What are they? They're swarming our position. Send help, repeat. This is Checkpoint 3. Send help! And he gets cut off. Minors? And suddenly the pieces fall into place. We now know why the enclave kidnapped minors from Redding. They brought them here to the Mariposa Military Base to use as slave labor to excavate the ruins so they could gain access to the master's FEV. But exposure to FEV turned them all into super mutants. We're killing the mutated minors of Redding. We find a charge skeleton here with nothing on it. And another enclave corpse with another radio and another cattle prod. We now know why we find all of these cattle prods. They were using them against the minors. Moving south was the room to the right. Inside, we find an explosive rocket on the ground and a locker. And inside, we find a green memory module. We have no idea what this is used for yet, but I'm sure it'll come in handy later. Adding back out to the hallway, we have to kill more mutated pig rats. And moving south, we find a hallway east and a hallway south filled with super mutants. Note the explosive rocket on the ground by the table. But none of these enemies see us. So moving to the hallway, we can take out the sniper rifle to do as much damage as we can from a distance. This alerts the other super mutants and they file out of their rooms and race at us. But we've got them in a choke point. They have to come in one by one and they have to stand in front of each other's fire. This makes it easier for us to pick them off one by one. This final super mutant died right on top of that explosive rocket, the one lying on the ground by the table. So I wasn't able to loot it. After looting the corpses, we can explore the rooms to the south. We find an explosive rocket on the floor of the first one, but the other one is empty. So heading out, we see an elevator down a hallway to the right, and this brings us down to another floor. But before we go down, we can explore the hallway to the north. Here we find another pig rat, and this just leads to a large open room with bones on the ground. So to continue, we can go back to the southern elevator and take it to floor number four. On the bottom floor, we find another enclave corpse, but on his body is just a radio. Moving west, we can take the hallway south. Here we find another corpse with a radio and a laser pistol, and at the very end, we find a foot locker, with rockets and explosive and a stimpack. With the southern room loaded, we can turn around and follow the hallway north. But at the end of the hallway, we find a large room filled with steaming green liquid. This must be the remains of the vats of goo the vaultweller told us about inside the meriposa military base, and standing in the middle of the goo is a super mutant who shouts, STOP! Approach no further. Melcure the magnificent commands you. Behold, I am the greatest magician in the world. Tramble before the might of Melcure the magnificent. Melcure the magnificent, we remember that name. We met a small boy in redding named Melcure. He was named after his dad, his dad whom he said had been kidnapped by the enclave, and here he is, mutated into a super mutant. He became the magician he always wanted to be, but he is now a magician of death. I warned you. Attack my pets. My claw pets take care of you. Clothing, attack. Melcure the magnificent casts a spell, and death claws emerge from the goo. This is one of the most difficult fights in the entire game. Right at the beginning of the battle, he not only attacks us with his weapon, but he summons four death claws. Two, on turn number one, and two more on turn number two. If by some miracle we kill one of these death claws, Melcure replaces him with a fire gecko. Melcure can only have four summoned creatures active at once. When one goes down, he summons another, consistently having four creatures attacking us. When the four death claws are dead, he summons four fire geckos. When the four fire geckos are dead, he summons four floaters. When the four floaters are dead, he summons four mole rats. It is only after killing the mole rats that Melcure says, Uh oh, me out of furries to mutate. But these waves of mutated creatures are incredibly difficult to kill. It's almost impossible to survive this battle without losing one of our companions. The best way to get through this fight is to initially ignore the death claws and to focus our attacks on Melcure. Because Melcure himself is pretty weak. I killed him with one critical hit of 68 damage. With Melcure dead at the beginning of the battle, he was only able to summon the first two death claws. So these are the only two we have to fight through, which was tough enough for me. On his body, we find a laser rifle, microfusion cells, and another holotape. After downloading the data to our Pip Boy, we can read Military Base Level 4. The excavation is going according to schedule. A judging by the old base blueprints, we should be reaching the VAT area shortly. Increased levels of the FEV virus are present in both the air and soil samples we've taken. Luckily, our suits filter out the virus. Tell the members of the enclave they should have a pure sample of the mutagen soon. Also, I've begun to notice some changes in the miners. They seem to be showing signs of increased strength, stamina, and a slight change in skin tone too. Obvious signs of mutations by the FEV. The men are getting nervous as they too have noticed the change. Although I've increased the number of guards, I fear if the workers completely mutate, we'll be vastly outnumbered. It's my hope that since we are using the local inhabitants as a workforce, full mutations won't occur unless they are directly exposed, dipped in a pure source, or prolonged exposure to the virus occurs. As you recall, my new amounts of the virus have been detected throughout this region. Tests on subjects living in this area shows that they have built up a tolerance to the FEV virus. However, I advise caution since exposure to this level of the FEV virus was never entered into the calculations. I advise that you rig the entrance to the base to collapse as soon as a pure sample is obtained. This will seal the exposed miners into the base and prevent unfriendly from obtaining the virus once we are gone. Melchior must have killed the enclave officer who recorded this tape, which is why we find it on his body. And we learned something new about FEV. In Fallout 1, we were led to believe that you could only mutate by direct exposure, by being dipped. But it appears that even prolonged exposure to contaminated soil or air can cause the mutation. And injection, apparently, also can cause the mutation, as the enclave proved when they injected death clause with FEV. Near to Melchior's throne, for lack of a better word, we find a footlocker on the ground. And in the footlocker, we find a PPK12 Gauss pistol. Praised for its range and stopping power, the PPK12 Gauss pistol is of German design. The pistol uses an electromagnetic field to propel rounds at tremendous speed and punch through almost any armor. Minimum strength 4. The Gauss pistol is an amazing weapon, one of the best weapons in the entire game. It deals between 22 and 32 damage. It has a range of 50, which is the same as a sniper rifle. Strange for a pistol to have such amazing range. It has a much lower strength requirement compared to the turbo plasma rifle, only requiring 4 strength compared to 6. And it has a low action point cost. 4. Compared to the turbo plasma rifles 5. And since it can penetrate armor, its critical hits are devastating. The only drawback of this weapon is that it uses the exceptionally expensive and rare 2mm ECM Unition. The only stack of this ammo that I have at this point are the 200 rounds we found in the toxic caves all the way back at Klamath. Good thing I've been saving it, though we can find some for sale by due month in NCR. But we've got a high tailed out of here. As we stand in this room, our entire party begins to take damage from the steaming pile of goo. I went back to Redding to try to talk to Milk your junior, but even after killing his father, we don't find anything to say to him. So, this is a dead end. But a profitable one, we walk away with the Gouse pistol and the T-51B power armor. And it looks like the enclave did a survey of the nearby town of San Francisco. I wonder why? To find out, be sure to tune into my next episode. I publish new Fallout videos each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss it, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. I've been to Project purity. Confound your friends and family who recognize the Jefferson Memorial, but have no idea what Project purity is. This design comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find it on other products as well, like smartphone cases, posters, stickers, prints, etc. So with interest, did you find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here? If you like what I do when you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.