In our last episode, we discovered the homologists of San Francisco and learned that they're trying to get to the planet Quetzal. To do so, they need fuel for their rocket ship, fuel that the she has. The leader of the homologists, AHS-9, also wants us to get rid of the she emperor. But even if we weren't siding with the homologists, we have reasons of our own to visit the she. We need fuel for the PMV Valdez. The tanker, that is the only way we can reach the enclave, whom we learned are on an oil rig in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. And so we had northeast. To visit the final place here in San Francisco, the Steel Palace. Passing beneath that Chinese archway, we arrive indoors. Doesn't look much like a palace, looks more like a vault. Heading inside, we see a room to the left, but there's nothing in here. So continuing down the hallway, we pass through a deactivated force field to arrive in a large room. We see a man guarding a room to the north, treat our people with respect he says. But instead of passing through there, we can open the door to the southwest. Here we find a number of computers and scientists. Talking with the man in the lab coat, may I assist you with something he asks? Who are you? We can say, I am Dr. Wong. I am the head scientist of this installation. We remember Dr. Wong. We briefly visited him in my video on the oil tanker. He was the guy that had chips spleen. If you missed that episode, uh, long story. Well, what do you do here we can ask? And he says, I oversee the scientific experiments we create and run here. I'm also in charge of the computer network. What are you planning we can ask? And he says, ah, but if I tell you our plans, then everyone will know. I'm afraid they are secret plans for now. All right, we can say, well, how does one get access to the computer network? And he says, why one learns how to hack into it or how to make friends with one of my underlings. I'm joking, of course, about hacking into it. If you were to do that, I'd send someone after you to kill you. He smiles to show he means no offense. But of course, we remember what happened to Badger if we asked him to hack into their network. So, uh, yeah, don't mess with Dr. Wong. Would you really kill me, we can ask? And again, he smiles. We must protect our honor, stranger. So you wouldn't have any real objections to me getting into the computer, we can ask. And he says, if you can convince my subordinates into doing so, but I certainly won't. Talking with the other scientists, excuse me, they say, mix this, mix that. I get so bored sometimes. Despite Dr. Wong's threats here, we can access the nearby terminal. Station deactivated. We can activate the station. Greetings. Please enter your password to confirm your identity. Despite Dr. Wong's warning, we can try to hack the computer. Chemistry database. Fuel and derivatives. Polymers. We can explore fuel and derivatives. You come across a vast array of complex chemical formulae and lab notes. You're not quite sure what all of this means. Now, if we don't know that we have to get oil for the tanker, our only option here is to direct fuel along pipeline. But we get an error message. Destination required. If, however, we know that we need fuel for the tanker, and if we know that the humbologists need fuel for their rocket ship, we find two options. We can direct fuel to the Poseidon tanker. This completes our quest. We get the fuel we need, and we can move on to the enclave. Or we can direct fuel to the humbologists. Fuel directed accordingly. Storage tanks empty. Close in program. We'll head back to the humbologists to learn what this does in just a moment. But continuing to explore the terminal, we find a data entry on polymers. Once we have waited past the symbology and technical discussion, we discover that the shear working on a new kind of polymeric combat armor that is resistant to both flame and penetration. It is still years from completion. We also see mention of new weaponry and construction capabilities. Apparently the shear have some plans for the future. So, this is what they're working on, but what are their future plans? All the other terminals in this room access the same network, so we don't get any new options by exploring them. There are two desks here, but they're both empty. Heading out, we can move north into the room being guarded, but we see that this is a bit of a cafeteria. We find one scientist at lunch for the glory of the emperor. Right. It kind of seems bored with his lot in life. Opening the door in this room, we arrive at the kitchen. No chef here, and the table is empty. We see a door in the eastern wall. This just leads us to a hallway, connecting to the big rectangular room we were in just a moment ago. At the end of the hallway, we can turn right down another hallway and open a door in the northern wall. We see a bank of three computers against the eastern wall. Two of them don't do anything, but oddly enough, when we access the third one in this row, we learn that our ham-fisted approach across the keys triggers the correct password. Our luck is incredible. But all we can do is exit. This doesn't do anything. I'm not sure why it's here. Perhaps it's left over from cut content, but it exists in every installation of Fallout 2. It just doesn't do anything. We see a room to the left filled with a bunch of suspension tanks. There is a bathroom in the south of western corner, but both of these rooms are empty. Back to the hallway and moving north, we find another bank of computers. Most of these don't function, but we find three more computers here that tell us that our luck is incredible. But have no other purpose. The room to the right filled with more suspension tanks is likewise empty, so it looks like this entire section of the steel palace is just taken up space. There's nothing to do here. There's not even anything at the end of this hallway. So retracing our steps, we can move southeast on the hallway to the other section of the steel palace. We see a very ornate door in a brick wall. Passing it for now, we can move through a deactivated force field to go through a series of doors to the east to arrive in a room filled with big tanks. This must be where they store the fuel. In this room we find a number of tables. They're all empty, and despite finding valves on the wall, there is nothing in this room we can interact with. So retracing our steps, we can go back through the doors and then open a door to the south. We arrive in another lab. Most of the scientists here just share the same dialogue. Funnily enough, if we hacked into their computer, even if we didn't move any of the fuel, they know about it. I want revenge on the hackers, says one of the scientists. The man we want to talk to is the white coat standing near to the southeastern wall. Who are you? What do you want? He says, I am Oxhorn, we can say I'm just looking around. Well Oxhorn, do you actually have business here? He says I would like to know what you do here, we can say, and he says I create compounds and devices for the emperor and for the emperor's advisor can lead. Currently I'm working on fuel derivatives and polymers that will withstand a massive attack. Of course this is of no interest to you, since it is for the most part theoretical. Now if we don't know that we need tanker fuel yet, or if we have not been to the homologists, our only option here is to say not yet it's not, but I'll be back. But if we've been to the Valdez and we know we need tanker fuel, we find an option to say actually it is of interest. I'd like fuel for the Poseidon oil tanker. And he says you want fuel for the tanker? I want hardened power armor. I understand a hebalagist, one called Crockett, has a process whereby a regular suit of power armor can be upgraded. Get me such a suit and I will divert the fuel for you. However, if we already use the chemistry terminal to divert the fuel, he instead says, even if I wanted to help you, I could not. Our fuel reserves have been depleted, perhaps you would be better off asking the hebalagists for their help. Goodbye. If we have not diverted the fuel yet, and if we are a hebalagist, we find a different option here. We can say, I'm here to obtain fuel for the homologists. And Jing says they want fuel, do they? Well, as irritating as they are, they do have their uses. I have heard that they have developed a process wherein they make a suit of power armor even more invincible. If they will upgrade such a suit of armor for me, I'll pass the fuel along the pipeline. I assume it's for their toy spaceship. It is the one called Crockett that you will have to speak with. So he is willing to trade the hardened power armor for fuel for the tanker. Jing here is the subordinate who Wong told us about, at to convince him to give us the fuel we've got to give him hardened power armor. If we have a suit, we can say, I have one right here. And he says, you have hardened power armor? Excellent. How do you want to be paid? We can sell the suit for 20,000 bucks, in which case he says so much. Ah, yet for such a powerful suit of armor to study, very well, here's your money. Or if we have not already diverted the fuel to the tanker, we can either have him directed to the tanker or to the homologist spaceship. This is yet another way to get the fuel, but it's an expensive way. I need that suit of power armor for my companions. So leaving Jing for now, we'll try to find another way. The scientists are really myth over being hacked. Someday we'll find out who hacked us. All of the terminals in this horseshoe shape are deactivated. We can't access any information on them. And the three desks nearby are empty, but the three terminals against the eastern wall are accessible. But these access the chemistry databases, just like the terminals in the other lab. So we find nothing new here. Opening the southeastern door, we arrive in a barracks lots of bunk beds in a table, and opening the last door in this room, we arrive in an observation room, where the scientists can overlook the fuel tanks. But this is a dead end. This leaves one place left to explore, retracing our steps back to the big rectangular room in the middle of the palace, we can move north to open the ornate door in the brick wall. Don't try anything funny, it says the guards. Just keep moving along and they'll be no problem. Opening the door, we arrive into a large throne room, but the emperor does not sit at his throne. Instead, we find two guards and another man in a long white lab coat. What can I do for you, he says? Who are you, we can ask? And he says, I am Ken Lee. I am the advisor to the emperor of the she. I bring forth the wisdom of the emperor. What is this place we can ask? And he says, this is the steel palace of the emperor. This is the heart of she-town. And where is the emperor, we can ask? And he says, the emperor remains hidden from prying eyes. As my job is to act as the emperor's screen, I cannot and will not tell you where he is. Well, what sort of research do you do here, we can ask? And he says, we do research that'll change the world. For more answers to your questions, you should seek out Dr. Wang Yi-C, which is annoying because Dr. Wang doesn't give us any answers to this question. What's the history of this place we can ask? And he says, we were the survivors from the wreck of a submarine. When we ran aground, we stripped the metal from the submarine to create the palace. Some do not believe this. And we can imagine why, as this entire room is made from stone, not submarine metal. Perhaps this line exists because interplay didn't want to create a new tile set of scrap submarine parts. And anyway, we can say, hmm, it sounds almost as if you're berating someone. And he says berating someone, any fool who had done their research can see that the very basis of she-town is the wreckage of the submarine. It seems fruitless to argue with those who would say there is no submarine. That's very even tempered of you we can say. And he says it certainly is. An ideal with these people on a daily basis. Alas, look, I have some other questions. I am oxhorn we can say and I'd like to see the emperor. Not everyone is granted a chance to see the emperor. Says Ken Lee, you must first prove your worth. Are you willing to prove yours? Yes, we can say. And he says excellent. This is what I require of you. There is a small military base north of here called Navarro. There are numerous vertebrates there. We need plans and blueprints to manufacture some of our own. Fetch those and you will be on your way to seeing the emperor. You got it we can say. And he says once you have obtained the vertebrate plans, give them to Dr. Wong Yitzi. He will put them to good use. If we still have our vertebrate plans and whenever gave them to the holologists, we can go back to the chemistry lab and talk with Dr. Wong. You have certain schematics to give me he says and the chosen one can say, Ken Lee told me to give these to you. Speak to Ken Lee, says Wong. And he shall discuss what happens in your future. Thank you. We shall be able to verify some of our test data with these. Good day. Then going back to the emperor's throne room and talking with Ken Lee, thank you for the vertebrate plans traveler, he says. What can I do for you? Can I see the emperor now we can ask? And he says you must complete a second test. The holologists are our enemies. Their leader, AHS9 has been abducting and brainwashing our children. Kill him for the good of the she and I shall tell you how to speak to the emperor. He says good is dead we can say. I am anxious to see the result of your attempt. Good day, he says. Oh man, now the she wants us to kill the leader of the holologists. Note that if we ask him about the fuel after having already diverted it to the holologists, he says I wish I were able to offer you our fuel, but unfortunately our stores are empty. They have been diverted by some means to the holologists. It is possible that you would be able to find someone to divert it back, in which case we either have to work with Badger, if he's still alive or Dave handy, if he's not bugged to steal the fuel from the holologists and send it to the oil tanker. If however we already gave the vertebrate plans to the holologists, Ken here says our spies report that you have given the vertebrate plans to the holologists, steal them for us and you shall be rewarded. We don't steal the plans by using our steal skill, instead we can do it one of two ways. If we told Vicki Goldman that Dave handy was in love with her and we then went back to Dave handy and lied to him and told him that Vicki made fun of him, one of the ways Dave can get revenge on her is to make a copy of the vertebrate plans for us. We find an option to say I need the vertebrate plans from your computer and he says there you go. Now get out of here, I'm gonna format the computer and leave or if we saved Badger's girlfriend, one of the favors he can do for us is to give us the vertebrate plans. We ask him to hack into a computer for us but instead of having him transfer fuel from the she we ask him to hack the holologists. Like stealing candy from a baby he says they'll never find me. What would you like from them and we can say can you get me a copy of their vertebrate plan and Badger says alright check back with me in a day or so and I'll let you know. One day later when we return he says got the holologists no problem need anything else? Did you get what we needed we can ask? Yeah I got the verte plans he says thanks a lot we can say see ya either way we can take them back to Ken Lee and turn them in as if we never gave them to the holologists to begin with. We get a similar quest that is resolved the same way if we chose to give the vertebrate plans to the she but then later decided to work with the holologists and we get a quest from them to steal the plans from the she we resolve it the exact same way. Back in the steel palace and talking with Ken Lee if we want to we can admit to him that the holologists sent us here to kill the emperor the holologists have assigned me to kill the emperor and Ken Lee says have they really? Perhaps you would like to turn the tables on them I can promise you our aid if you will agree to kill a hs 9 he's as good as dead we can say excellence as Ken Lee I hope to hear of your success soon we've got to make a choice do we kill the she emperor for the holologists or do we kill a hs 9 for the she we'll start by killing the emperor there are two ways to get back there to see him without killing a hs 9 first the easiest way is to have high karma charisma and intelligence if we have high enough karma charisma and intelligence even if we've already confessed that we were sent here to assassinate the emperor when we tell Ken Lee here that we are in need of fuel and instead of asking us for the vertebrate plans he says you are certainly a worthy recipient of our fuel I believe I can trust you with our secrets in the back room you will find that the force field to the large computer has been turned off and to the password cspdmshr-she-wong-t-x9372 and you will find yourself connected to the emperor computer the emperor will be able to direct our fuel to where the emperor is a computer and can Lee says yes it stores our history our research and projects possibilities for the future it is far better than any fallible human yet we temper its suggestions with our own knowledge of human nature I see says the chosen one well thanks for your time I have a village to rescue this is a pretty difficult karma intelligence and charisma check even with high levels of each we can still fail it we may need to save before talking with Ken Lee and try a few times before we can pass it if we can't pass this karma intelligence and charisma check aside from assassinating a hs 9 the only way to visit the emperor is to just walk through this back door but if we choose this option we find the force field enabled and we have to disable it there is a room at the end of the hallway here but there's nothing in the bookcase or any of these containers and if we use our repair skill on the force field we can disable it without turning the nearby she guard hostile in this room we find the emperor of the she a computer and we can access it greetings please enter your password to confirm your identity if we didn't get the password from Ken Lee and if we have enough science skill we can simply hack into the computer but if we got the password from Ken Lee we find it at the top of the list she whangt see the name of their submarine either way we gain access and from here we can do anything if we choose geolocation nothing seems to happen we find a response that asks us what do we want to locate but our only option is back it's supposed to give us the option to locate our missing tribes people in which case it tells us that they're on the enclave oil rig but i couldn't figure out how to get it to give us this option perhaps it only appears if we haven't already learned where our tribes people are but next up we can go to diagnostics choosing a network scan we find three different stations chemistry biology and physics the chemistry station we have already activated and explored this was the station inside the first lab that we could use to divert fuel to the tanker from the emperor of the she we can do the same thing we can access the chemistry station and divert fuel to the tanker but from here we can also learn more about the she we can activate the biology station then we can access the biology station note that the biology and physics stations can't be accessed in any other way these were the terminals that were inactive in the other labs from the biology station we can read about their botany program after about 20 minutes we discover this initial results of botanical radiation disruption prove unpromising doctor shang develops radiation resistant plant unpleasant side effects follow resultant plant life deemed too dangerous shang insists on pursuing line and mixing it with genetic program we can then read about the genetic program after about 20 minutes we piece together this information using the basics of the FEV virus doctor long Wang is convinced of success in creating mutant soldiers he creates a serum providing interesting results with rodent experiments he injects himself and dissolves into a puddle of goo doctor shang disables line of inquiry with the death of doctor long doctor shang is in charge shang demands focus on radiation consuming plant life so somehow the she of san francisco got their hands on FEV how we have no idea i doubt very much that they infiltrated the military base after all it had been occupied by the master and a bunch of monsters for decades before the vault waller destroyed it then it was only reopened by the enclave after they excavated it perhaps it was some other stash of FEV if this line on this computer is evidence that there were other stashes of FEV kept at other installations this means that FEV could potentially be found anywhere in america where there were military governmental scientific installations like the institute in boston west tech in west virginia and a certain vault in the capital wasteland then we can read about their zino program the subject on which we had hoped to establish a series of meaningful experiments has disappeared presumed either destroyed or stolen by the habalagests further inquiries have proven fruitless until such a time as further specimens are obtained and this database will remain an operative doctor shang perhaps this zino program of the she can explain where the one a mingoes came from after all we learned that the one a mingoes in the one a mingo mine were actually aliens i think the connection between the one a mingo mine and san francisco are the one a mingos that we find in the basement of the oil tanker both this alien specimen and their escaped FEV experiments must have gotten into the tanker where they either reproduced or infected others which is why we find the one a mingos the floaters and the centars there backing out of the chemistry station we can activate then access the physics station we'll start by reading exploration we are still preparing a working model of an aerial vehicle none of the designs we have created have proven to be safe or aerodynamic perhaps if we had access to the plans of the ancients dot dot dot dr. wang in the next one theory after waiting through the introduction and the mathematics we discover that the she are learning to develop nuclear power again rebuilding the space travel theories of the ancients and they mock the habulogists while doing so and harnessing the energy of the sun wind and sea at least that's what the notes read like next we can back out of database to explore forecasting here the emperor makes a number of predictions tanker vagrants 0% likely to clear creature infestation without outside assistance processing designability of providing assistance 15% chance of designated chosen one succeeding in task wow the emperor only had 15% chance on my success i mean i'm impressed that it even knows about my task a man i did hope for better odds than that chances of submarine reappearing in this game 0% what first they're breaking the fourth wall then they're talking about a submarine reappearing it would have to appear first for it to reappear are they talking about the she's submarine that was dismantled uh the habulogist space launch is 95% likely to fail factors no fuel improper sealant poor leadership lack of initiative input Poseidon oil tanker unfit for travel require more input uh oh does this mean that if we fuel the tanker we won't be able to get it to move oh great input indicates enclave more powerful than previously believed do not approach the emperor has two more forecasts based on your character's choices i couldn't get them because i'm not a child killer and my karma was too high if your characters a child killer one of the forecasts is the children of she-town are in danger 50% chance of slayer moving among them and if our character has too low karma we get the forecast danger has come to she-town 75% probability of harm coming to residents finally we can move back to diagnostics and choose check hard drive integrity the functional integrity of the system is 92% the shielded core of the emperor computer is 100% the integrity of the data is 100% the forecasting node is suffering minor power lags projected time to repair six days forecast 15% operational i suppose that explains why we were only able to get a few forecasts now the habulogists told us to kill the emperor how do you kill a computer well if we want to side with the habulogists and kill the emperor of the she we can choose the option to format the hard drive format drive all data will be lost are you sure yes are you sure you wish to format this unit this is an irreversible process yes formatting formatting formatting complete reboot requires full install shutting down shutting down complete now if we chose to kill the emperor of the she by formatting the hard drive or if we use the emperor computer to transfer fuel without permission then the guard in this room turns hostile may the Buddha have mercy on your spirit i'm sending you to the hell of burning metal we now have to fight our way out of the steel palace killing every guard along the way incidentally because the habulogists don't know that the she emperor is a computer we can achieve this part of the quest by simply killing can leave after killing everyone in the steel palace we can exit to Chinatown but everyone in Chinatown turns hostile as well we now have to find our way through Chinatown if at last we make it back to the habulogists we can tell Harry that we got fuel for the shuttle we have all we need for the journey now he says excellent now we just await the word of a hs 9 and i'm sure he'll want you to come with us go get whatever you need done and then come back and join us with the star father see you then we can say all right we're going to quetzal heading downstairs we can check in with a hs 7 now that the ship is filled with fuel he says we await only the word of a hs 9 the great and terrible to achieve lift off then moving all the way to his office we can check in with a hs 9 now if we told Kenley that we would kill a hs 9 even if we then kill the emperor and Kenley when we arrive back at a hs 9 he says child how could you stray from the path of truth like this i see from your aura that you plan to kill me i am bitterly disappointed bitterly oh well let us proceed and with that a hs 9 and the habulogists turn hostile putting us in quite a pickle but if we never agreed to kill a hs 9 and instead we killed the emperor or Kenley when we arrive back a hs 9 says i can see by your emanations that you have succeeded in ridding the world of the polluting neurodines of the emperor yes i have we can say now i require your assistance in helping my people you have killed the emperor and destroyed his minions says a hs 9 yes i have we can say then there is no one who can stand in my way he says but i see no need to be beholden to a mere tool farewell and good riddance oh well says the chosen one if that's the way it's got to be so long and after all of that if we side with the habulogists they betray us we don't get the fuel for the tanker and we don't get to ride on the ship to quetzal so instead we can do as Kenley requested and assassinate a hs 9 now a hs 9 is in the very back of the habulogists and if we just kill him we anger the entire compound and maybe that's what we want perhaps we want the experience but if we want to get in there assassinate the guy and get out the best way to do this is to perform the shady sands shuffle activate three to four pieces of dynamite set a nice long timer on it minute and a half to two minutes or so reverse pick pocketed onto his inventory then high tail it out of there even if we're all the way on the other side of the compound once the dynamite goes off and kills him a hs 7 in the guards here turn hostile but since we're next to the door we can simply walk on out then returning to the she we can check in with Kenley and he says with the death of a hs 9 the great and terrible the habulogists pose no real threat to us and our researches well done you have my gratitude would you like to speak with the emperor? yes we can say he again tells us that the emperor is a computer if we choose to side with the she not only when we head through this door do we find the barrier deactivated but we can also access the computer and as long as we don't format the hard drive transfer the fuel to the tanker without the sheet turning hostile now it's time to prepare to face the enclave i went down to the flying dragon eight to stock up on supplies when i noticed that mat was not standing outside the brotherhood of steel bunker we visited the other bunkers and the wastes and the brotherhood members assigned to those bunkers were still there but mat's gone where did he go heading inside the bunker we can take the elevator downstairs we don't see him down here the barracks are all still empty well maybe ace knows where he went heading on over to the computer we can ask him what happened to mat we can ask loading sequence says the computer we can replay it now we find mat standing in the middle of the bunker surrounded by the enclave you and your so-called president will not succeed says mat is that so the chosen one has come and he will rid the world of your evil i care nothing for your pathetic prophecies worse you have become a nuisance through your meddling that ends today killing me will stop nothing that may be but seeing your body running on the ground will bring a smile to my face what do you think you're doing now you you've had it for well i haven't left like that for a while anyway get ready to die peep well it's a little past 12 and it went up for lunch score i'm there yeah help me in on that the enclave came here and killed mat why did they know that we stole the vertebrae plans if so how did they know that we brought them here to the brotherhood and who is that guy this is the second time we've seen him he's also the guy that killed Grewth are in the death in vault 13 if he's fighting the enclave's battles for them we've got to get rid of them before anyone else dies and now we can we've got the tinker fuel and we did it without losing any wealth or karma we save badger's life we rid ourselves of the apology menace we get to keep on of our hardened power armor and at last we can head to the tinker and make our way to the enclave we'll pick up right here in my next episode i publish many videos each and every week on my channel so if you don't want to miss it be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button if you have any feel like you're still missing out on youtube notifications consider following me on twitter at oxhorn i update twitter manually with every new piece of content that i publish i've got a brand new shirt in the shop enclave boaster support of the enclave and everything they stand for with this brand new design this design comes on shirts in a variety of men's women's and children's sizes and in a wide array of colors you can find it on other products as well like smartphone cases pillows posters mug stickers prints etc so with interest did you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here if you like what i do and you want to support me in a more personal way consider becoming a patron on patreon or a member here on youtube but more than anything i'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today thank you so much for watching and i'll see you soon with more brand new videos