winner applause 같습니다 andgraduate yesterday's episode. We reported back to Elder Lions of the Citadel to tell him that the Enclave had stolen the Gek. We either gave him the vial of modified FV or we didn't. And then Elder Lions gave Sarah Lions the go ahead to deploy Lions pride and Liberty Prime against the Enclave at Project Puriting. We then escorted the giant robot all the way to the Jefferson Memorial while listening to his wholesome views about the community. The American will never fall to communist invasion. Democracy is truth. Communism is death. Engaging Chinese and Vicarity. Communism is the very definition of failure. Communism is a lie. Freedom is the sovereign rights of the Emperor. The Liberal Assessment. Red Chinese victory. They'll be possible. Democracy will never be defeated. Alaska's liberation is imminent. After Liberty Prime cleaned up the Enclave, we were free to enter the gift shop. By heading down the hall by interning the corner, we find the gift shop Evily Garded. Down. Down. Down. Down. Down. Down. With the gift shop clear, Sarah turns to us and says, head for the control room and keep your head down. Heading inside, we race towards the purifier when you again. I can't say I'm surprised. You and your Yoke seem hell bent on destroying everything our government has worked to achieve. There's nothing to stop me from killing you this time. Let's end this. Look, I don't want to fight you. You don't have to. Just stand there. It'll be over quicker and might even be less painful for you. And with that Colonel Adam and the Enclave soldiers turn hostile. Or we could say, I'm going to enjoy killing you. You're in over your head, I'm afraid. But this is the path you choose for yourself. Tell your father I said hello. And he again turns hostile. We have to cut him down as well as his two Enclave soldiers. Alright. What? Well, that takes care of that. By now the pride should be mopping up whatever opposition is left outside. Let's get this room secured. Or we can say, give it up, bottom. You've lost. I beg to differ. The Enclave is at the height of its power. Once this facility is operational, the masses will flock to the Enclave for fresh water, protection, and a plan for the future. We have two ways to convince them, each of which can be further broken down. But both of which require passing a speech check. We can pass the more difficult of the two speech checks to say, why are you doing this? Why give your allegiance to a machine? I am sworn to protect the presidency. The Jane of Command must be upheld. I wouldn't expect you to understand. From here we can pass an intelligence check to say, Eden's not the president, he was never elected. He's not even human. And your point? My point is that your government isn't legitimate. You have no right to rule. I see. And what of the chain of command? When the Enclave fell on the west coast, Eden was next in line for leadership. He's not human. He assumed control. It was never given to him. Yes. You're right. I had not considered it from that viewpoint. But then, where does that leave me? Or instead of the intelligence check, we can pass a speech check to say, Eden betrayed you. You see this file? He trusts me more than he trusts you. That's not true. That plan was abandoned months ago. He would never go behind my back. But you know he has. He sent me to do a job that you wouldn't. You could have stolen the vile. It means nothing. It proves nothing. You know I'm telling the truth. Eden, the Enclave, both have betrayed you. I am in charge here. I am the Enclave. If you're in charge, then you can stop the plans of some mad machine. Stop. Now? Are you out of your mind? There's nothing else to be done. We will push forward and we will prevail. Or going back to the very beginning of this conversation, instead of choosing the harder of the two speech checks, we can choose the easier one to say, Raven Rock is gone. Eden checked out. You've got nothing left. The American people are worth fighting for. The future must be secured. I won't let you stand in the way of that. This isn't the way to do it. More fighting will just make things worse. And what would you have me do? Let you have everything I've worked to build. Let you destroy it all. No matter which pathway we chose, they all lead to the same final choice. We can say, you know what? Screw this. You're going down. Such arrogance. If that's your wish, so be it. Take some small comfort in knowing you'll have little time to regret the decision. Or we can spare his life by saying, just walk away. It's not too late. And you. You would just let me leave? How can I be sure you won't just shoot me once I turn my back on you? I suppose it doesn't matter much now. Very well. I shall leave you to your fate. And with that, he leaves. I guess I shouldn't be surprised that you'd just let him walk away. It's amazing the world hasn't beaten that out of you. I'll go along with it, but I don't like it. You just better hope it doesn't come back to bite you. Now let's get this place locked down. Sarah races up to Project Purity, and Eden with his soldiers leaves forever. However, if we want to keep him alive, we better pickpocket him now, because this is our final opportunity to loot two unique items. On his inventory, we find Colonel Autumn's laser pistol. The stats of this pistol are different, depending upon whether or not we have the Broken Steel DLC installed. Without the DLC installed, the pistol does 10 damage, but can attack 12 times per second, which is double that of a regular laser pistol. Because of that, it brings the DPS of the weapon up to 120, making it the most powerful laser pistol in the game. However, with Broken Steel installed, its damage is increased to 18, but its attacks per second reduced to 6. This puts its DPS at 108, which is the same as Smuggler's End, which we found in Elder Lion's Safe in my video on the citadel. The only difference between Colonel Autumn's Broken Steel laser pistol and Smuggler's End is weight. Smuggler's End weighs 1 lbs less than Colonel Autumn's laser pistol. It looks like every other laser pistol. We also find Colonel Autumn's uniform. It looks very similar to General Chase's overcoat that we got from Mother Ship Zeta, but its stats are very different. When fully repaired and before stats are considered, it has a DR of 10, grants plus 20 to radiation resistance, plus 5 to energy weapons, and plus 5 to small guns. General Chase's overcoat was white with a gray uniform beneath, but Colonel Autumn's is tan, with a black uniform beneath it. Autumn is the only member of the enclave to where this uniform, and aside from exploits, this is our only opportunity to get it. Racing up the stairs to follow Sarah, we hear the voice of Dr. Lee. Hello! Hello! Is anyone there? Dr. Lee, it's Sarah Lions. I'm in the control room. We're both here. What's going on? I've been monitoring the equipment remotely and we have a serious problem. The facility has been damaged during the fighting. Some of it looks accidental, some of it may have been sabotaged. There's pressure building up and holding tanks. It needs to be released now, or else the whole facility could explode. To release the pressure, you're going to have to turn the purifier on. Do you understand me? It has to be turned on now! If I'm reading this right, I'm afraid there are lethal levels of radiation inside the chamber. I'm sorry. I wish there was some other way, but there's just no time. It has to be done now, or the damage would be catastrophic. Well, so much for celebrating. One of us is going to have to go in there and turn the damn thing on. Whoever does it isn't coming back out. Not exactly how I imagine going out, you know? So, what should we do? Draw straws? There must be some other way. I wish that were true. Really, I do. But you heard Dr. Lee. We have to do this right now. Or who knows how bad it'll be. One of us has to go in there. The hell with this? This is crazy. I'm not arguing. Believe me. But one of us has to go in there now. We don't have time to stand around and talk about it. Who's it going to be? Ha! No way I'm going in there. You do it. So that's how it is? So much for shivalry. Fine. I'll do it. But I need the code. You know what? I'm not telling you. What? Are you out of your mind? Well, both die of this thing doesn't get turned on. Who knows how many other people will die too? Give me the damn code. Fine. Let's all burn and hell then. You can't do this. Give me the code. And if we want to, we can just sit here. It takes a while. But as Dr. Lee said, if we don't go in there and release the pressure, eventually... The whole place explodes. And this does have its own ending. Alternatively. You have to give me that code. If you won't turn this thing on, you have to at least let me do it. We already deduce the code. Bing, James, Child. It's a number that we're well familiar with. The code is Revelations 21-6. Okay, I got it. I guess if this doesn't work, we're screwed anyway, right? I just wanted to say thanks. And good luck. Good luck. That's it. Fine. Thanks. Now, let's get this over with. With that, Sarah races towards the console and waits for us to activate the switch. Talking with Dr. Lee... There's no time to discuss it. Someone needs to activate the purifier now. Please. Sarah, are you sure? Look, there's nothing more to be said. Cycle the airlock so I can get this over with. Get out of here as soon as you can. Get back to the Citadel where it's safe. Looks like we have only one thing left to do. And that is to activate the airlock control. With that, the airlock door slides closed. And the one-to-project purity slides open, bathing Sarah Lyons in toxic radiation. She steps forward and punches the code into the console. She relieves the pressure, but the radiation quickly overcomes her. If we have Fox as a companion and only with broken steel installed, we can say, Fox can start the purifier. That's how you want to do this. Fine. But be quick about it. Turning to Fox. This is a dire predicament. What shall we do? Fox, I need you to start the purifier. The code is 216. Ah, of course. My immunity to radiation makes me a far better candidate for surviving in there. I would say that your destiny lies within that chamber. But you have already altered mine. The least I can do is return the favor, cycle the airlock, and we'll put an end to this. He races inside. We cycle the airlock, he steps into the chamber, and punches in the code. I said, punches in the code. Okay, he's thinking about it. Now, Fox, start over. It's three digits, 216. Now, enter. There you go. And with that, Fox survives the radiation. He struts around triumphantly, having saved the capital wasteland. And then gives it a kick for good measure. Now, without broken steel installed, we can ask all of our other companions to sacrifice themselves instead. However, they all turn us down. And they have their own humorous dialogue. But with broken steel installed, these options are removed. And their dialogue is removed. I wasn't able to capture these conversations even though I tried, because I didn't want to risk messing up my game saves by uninstalling broken steel. However, with broken steel installed, we find two additional options. We can say, Sharon can start the purifier. Great, then get them in there. We don't have time to waste. Then, turning to Sharon. This is an unpleasant situation to find ourselves in. You need to start the purifier, Sharon. The code is 216. I don't recall that being part of the plan. He has the same response to either of these two options. So we can say, Sharon, please do this for me. The code is 216. As my employer, I am obliged to honor your request. Very well. He heads inside. We cycle the airlock door. He walks into the chamber, and punches in the code. And he handles the radiation like a pro. Well done, Sharon. Well done. Our final option is to have Sergeant RL3 start the purifier. If that'll work, then great. But we have to do this quickly. The next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, the next day, who grew up with the Sweden Army's well-done But if we don't have Fox or we don't have Sharon or we don't have Sergeant RL3 and we don't want Sarah to sacrifice her life, we can say, I'll do it. I'll start the purifier. You're going to have to be quick about it. If the radiation is bad enough, you won't have much time. I won't forget what you've done here. No one will. Thank you. Turning to dog meat. I think it's time for us to say goodbye, old buddy. Take care of yourself. OK? Now to face the music. Turning towards the console, we head inside and Sarah closes the airlock door behind us. The emergency bulkhead slides open. And it's here where we make a choice that has dramatic consequences for everyone in the capital wasteland, changing the course of the events that happen during the broken steel DLC. Activating the auxiliary filtration input, this panel allows for the input of additional filtration chemicals. Do you wish to add any chemicals to the system? We could do nothing. Or we can insert the modified FEV. And slide the vial into the panel. And we lose karma. But we complete the quest project impurity. No matter which option we choose, we must now activate the purifier. Stepping inside, we see a dead enclave scientist. But no trace of jams. Looks like the enclave tried to clean up in here. What did they do with his body? Stepping forward, we see the console. And we can punch in the code. Two. One. Six. Six. One. Two. One. Two. One. Six. We're overwhelmed by the radiation. But before we fall to the ground and die, we see the murky opaque water of the tidal basin begin to clear. It's working. It's working. And so it was that the lone wanderer ventured forth from Vault 101, intent on discovering the fate of a father who had once sacrificed the future of humanity. For that of his only child. If we have bad karma. The capital wasteland proved a cruel, inhospitable place. The lone wanderer ultimately surrendered to the vices that had claimed so many others. Selfishness. Greed. Cruelty. These were the values that guided a lost soul through countless trials and triumphs. If we have neutral karma. The capital wasteland proved a cruel, inhospitable place. But if we have good karma. The capital wasteland proved a cruel, inhospitable place. But the lone wanderer refused to surrender to the vices that had claimed so many others. The values passed on from father to child. Selfishness. Compassion. Honor. Guide it this noble soul through countless trials and triumphs. If we took no action and allowed project purity to overload. It was not until the end of this long road that the lone wanderer was faced with that greatest of virtues. Sacrifice. But the child refused to follow the father's selfless example. If we forced Sarah to sacrifice herself. It was not until the end of this long road that the lone wanderer was faced with that greatest of virtues. Sacrifice. If we have broken steel installed and asked Fox to do it. It was not until the end of this long road that the lone wanderer was faced with that greatest of virtues. Sacrifice. But the child refused to follow the father's selfless example. Instead, allowing a true hero to venture into the irradiated control chamber of project purity. If we have broken steel installed and instead asked Sharon to do it. It was not until the end of this long road that the lone wanderer was faced with that greatest of virtues. Sacrifice. But the child refused to follow the father's selfless example. Instead, allowing a true hero to venture into the irradiated control chamber of project purity. If we have broken steel installed and asked Sergeant RL3 to do it. It was not until the end of this long road that the lone wanderer was faced with that greatest of virtues. Sacrifice. But the child refused to follow the father's selfless example. Instead, allowing a true hero to venture into the irradiated control chamber of project purity. But if instead we did it. But it was not until the end of this long road that the lone wanderer learned the true meaning of that greatest of virtues. Sacrifice. Stepping into the irradiated control chamber of project purity. The child followed the example of the father. Sacrificing life itself for the greater good of mankind. Sacrifice. We obeyed President Eden and contaminated the waters of project purity with modified FV. Sadly, when selected by the sinister President to be his instrument of annihilation, the wanderer agreed. Humanity would be preserved, but only in its purest form. The waters of life flowed at last. The virus contained within soon irradiated all those deemed unworthy of salvation. The capital wasteland, despite its progress, became a graveyard. But if we didn't. Thankfully, when selected by the sinister President to be his instrument of annihilation, the wanderer refused. Humanity with all its flaws was deemed worthy of preservation. The waters of life flowed at last. Free and pure for any and all. The capital wasteland, at long last, was saved. So ends the story of the lone wanderer who stepped through the great door of Vault 101 into the annals of legend. But the tale of humanity will never come to a close. For the struggle of survival is a war without end. And war never changes. And that is the full story of Fallout 3. That is, until... We awakened two weeks later, but where are we? Thus begins the events of the broken steel DLC for Fallout 3. We can only play this DLC after completing the primary story to the game. Now that we're done, I'll be tackling broken steel in an upcoming series. I need time to capture footage, and in the meantime I'll be working on other content, but never fear. We'll begin the full story to the broken steel DLC of Fallout 3 and explore the ramifications of our choices we made during the main story in an upcoming series. If you don't want to miss it, consider subscribing here on YouTube and turning on the bell notifications button. If you have and feel like you're still not getting YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wider ray of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do and want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with more Fallout content and in time, the story of broken steel.