In our last episode, we finally found and rescued Vic, the traitor at the den, only to discover that he had no idea where Vault 13 was. Oh! He got the Vault 13 waterflask from some guy in Vault City, but he joined us as a companion and said he'd help us find his friend to track down Vault 13. And so we traveled DO East towards Vault City. This is the first legitimately difficult long journey of the game. Depending on our stats, we can stumble upon a dozen or so dangerous random encounters. If I'm honest, I died so much that it took me an hour of gameplay just to travel East. Along the way, directly in our path, we stumble upon an unknown town. We learned that this is the town of Modok. This isn't where we were headed, but Doug, gone and I need a nap. So, take a quick pit stop. We arrive in Modok. Before we hit the sack, let's check out the nearby general store, see if they have anything useful. The game describes the shopkeep as an average person of average height, of average complexion. Nothing out of the ordinary. Sorry, he says. This trading post is closed indefinitely due to the drought. But despite this, he's willing to tell us about the town. He says that his name is Joe. He runs the trading post. He is also the town sheriff and makes sure things stay orderly in Modok. They don't have much in town, a few farms, a slaughterhouse. Rose's bed in breakfast and a tannery. Bed in breakfast sounds good to me. He says the bed in breakfast is on the north side of town, and people come from all over to sample Rose's world famous omelets. Some say that her omelets are a cure all, but Joe here thinks that that's nonsense. When we ask him about the tannery, he says, just follow your nose and you'll find it. There is apparently a foul stench in the air that comes from the nearby tannning vats, just north of here. But despite this stench, it's a wonderful place to get leather goods. Balthus runs the tannery. The building in the middle of town that reminds us a lot of shady sands is the town church. But because of the drought, no one has a lot to be thankful for, so few people attend church these days. When we ask him if he knows about a geck, he says, you're in luck. I just so happen to know where it is. If we're rude to him, he shuts down and refuses to talk. But when we ask him what he wants, he says that he doesn't want to tell us about the geck, unless we solve the town's drought problem. We can say, you know I can't make it rain, right? And he chuckles softly. Of course not, he says I wouldn't ask you to do something impossible like that. Here's the situation. There's a farm on the outskirts of town, where no farm should be. Some years ago, it just appeared out of nowhere. A small group of townsfolk were hunting one day when they noticed the new farm. But when they went to explore it, they discovered that no one was there. After spending months trying to find the farmer who owned it, they decided that it must have been abandoned shortly after being built. So instead of letting the crops die in the field, a town's person named Karl moved in. But then things became stranger. Karl started to tell stories of seeing strange glowing figures tending to the crops and feeding the animals at night. They all laughed at him. They thought that he was making up stories. But then one day, Karl stopped coming into town. They went up to the farm to look for him. Joe stops for a moment. He begins to tremble violently. The horror. Body strewn everywhere. Some crucified. While others will have to rot in the sun. He's still sometimes wakes up in the middle of the night screaming from the horrible images. He saw that day. At this point, he says he was inclined to just never go back there. But for some reason, the crops at this ghost farm are still flourishing despite the drought. To put it bluntly, the town of Modok needs the crops at the ghost farm in order to survive. And he wants us to rid the farm of the ghosts. In return, he'll tell us where the geck is. When we agree, he says that the farm is a day's travel northeast of here. And he marks it on our pit boy map. So, looks like we've got a shortcut to the geck. No need to go to Vault City now. Let's just deal with Modok. Next, we'll inspect the church. We find one man walking around there. But all he can do is talk about the ghost farm. Karl used to live there, he says. But now his ghost probably haunts it. Heading to the building to the southeast. We find a man standing in the living room. The name's Grisham, he says. Welcome to my slaughterhouse. You drop him off or pick him up. Oh, okay. I suppose we should have been able to smell it from a distance. He offers to sell us dried brahmin strips. $10 a package if we're interested. When we inquire why the drought hasn't affected his business yet, he says, actually, the drought has helped my business. Since no one can grow food to feed their brahmin, they sell them cheap to Grisham, who then slaughters them. But he realizes that this is just a temporary boon for him. When the townsfolk are out of brahmin, he'll run out of a source for his jerky. So he too wants the drought to end. He doesn't have much to barter with, a small stack of money, and some jerky. After buying from him, he stops us. Wait, he says, you look like a capable traveler. I don't suppose you'd be interested in making some money. When we agree, he says great. He wants us to head out into the pastures at night and kill the wild dogs that are attacking his herd. We can come back for a reward when the job is done. When ready, we arrive at his brahmin herd, and immediately a pack of wild dogs attack from the north. This is a difficult battle because they go right for the brahmin, and we only get paid for every brahmin that we save. We have to kill these dogs as quickly as possible before they wipe out the herd. When done, we arrive back at Grisham, and he pays us $100 per saved brahmin. We also get five karma for each dog we kill, but we get nothing if a companion lands the killing blow. If for some reason we don't rescue any of the brahmin, Grisham charges us $1,500 instead. Exploring the northern rooms in his house, we find a man named Daven in the northeastern room. He doesn't appear to be very competent. When we ask him what he does, he says, well, I, uh, I mean, I supervise and take care of stuff. We get the impression that he has the job just because he's Grisham's son. We find an option to say, I hear rumors about you and the brahmin, and he's defensive. He says it's a lie. I only go out to the barn at night to, uh, make sure everything's locked up, you know? With all the wild animals around and all, he warns us about doing business with his father. Apparently he is known for being a cheat, which is true. He cheated us out of our box if we let any of the brahmin die. If our charisma is high enough, we find an option to seduce Daven here. We can say, why don't we get more comfortable? He says, wow, I never thought such a beautiful woman would try to seduce me. What? You're not a woman? Don't worry, you're so pretty. I won't say anything if you won't. We have two ways to reject him, in which case he just ends the conversation, we can say, there must be some mistake. I just wanted to ask you some questions, or we can say, thanks for the offer, but no. Uh, I'll be leaving now. However, if we have high enough charisma, we can say, stop talking. You're going to ruin it for the both of us. Just sit back and enjoy. Well, that the screen fades to black. And we wake up in our vault suit in the morning. His father, Grisham, barges through the door. What's going on here, he says? Dad says Daven. Uh-oh, says the chosen one. Holy cow says Grisham. I knew Daven was different, but there's only one way to make this right. When we talk to him, he says, boy, don't even try to explain this. I don't want to hear it. I'm going to get the preacher, make all of this lawful like, and you will leave and take my son with you when you go. With that, the screen fades to black again, and we appear in the church. Sheriff Joe stands at the podium, officiating our marriage. Dearly beloved, he says, we are gathered here. Uh, Joe says, Grisham, can we just skip to the vow tie in parts? Okay, um, well, before we begin, does anyone in this room know any reason why these two here before us should not be joined in holy matrimony? The chosen one says, uh, and Grisham says, boy, continue, please. The chosen one can say, and Joe says, do you ox or take Daven, to be your lawfully wedded, um, other? Yes, lawfully wedded other, but the chosen one is not pleased. I sure the hell don't make me make Daven a widower. Interject Grisham. The chosen one has no choice, and he says, um, I do. Do you Daven take ox orn to be your lawfully wedded other? And Daven here is excited. I surely do, he says. Then by frontier law, I pronounce you attached. You may now kiss the other. And with that, the chosen one and Daven are now married. Daven joins our company as a permanent companion, but he's horrible. He's bad at combat. He doesn't level up like our other companions, and we can't ask him to wait, which means the only ways to remove him from our party are to kill him or to sell him into slavery, both of which break Grisham's heart or to divorce him, but we can only do that at new Reno. Frustratingly because he counts as a permanent companion, whom we can't fire, it limits the number of companions we can recruit, unless we've already reached our cap before meeting Daven. Despite forcing us into this marriage, Grisham isn't too pleased. If we go back to his house, he says, I feel sick. And if we go into the middle room where his sister lives, she says, that's just sick. So not very accepting in the Grisham household. In the room just south of Daven, we find Miria. Miria is Grisham's daughter. And she's a lot like Daven. She doesn't really want to talk about her father's slaughterhouse business. Instead, she begins flapping her eyelashes at us. When we try to talk about the town, she says the town is so boring, but despite that, she won't stop talking. It's some time before we can get a word and edge-wise. But then when we ask about Rose's bed and breakfast, she tells us that she thinks there's something suspicious about her omelets. Everyone comes from all over to eat them, but she's never seen any chickens there. Her coop is very well protected. Rose says that it's to keep her chickens safe from predators, but the way the coop is constructed makes Miria think that she's trying to keep something in, rather than to keep predators out. Also, she makes omelets from 12-pound eggs, and whoever heard of a chicken laying a 12-pound egg. She also tells us a story about a mutated brawman. It's very strange, she says. Every now and then a farmer will tell a story about a brawman born with only one head. Talk about weird. She refuses to talk about Devon. She doesn't spread rumors about family. And then, just like Devon, we can flirt with her. Let's get it on. The chosen one can say, you know you want it. She faints innocence. My, what are you implying? She says, the chosen one in charming fashion can say, I think you know what I'm talking about, baby. You know this is what you want. We smile and begin to undress. The screen fades to black, but our affection is not wanted. As soon as the chosen one undresses, Grisham barges into the room, and both he and Miria attack. As if the chosen one was trying to force himself on her. There are many other ways this can resolve, but only if we have eight charisma points. Instead of saying, let's get it on, we can say, I really would like to know more about you. And she says, I'm really touched. Nobody ever tries to get to know me better. Oh, they want is sex, sex, sex. I get so tired of having wild sex all the time. I'm so glad you're not like the others. This is the chosen one's foot in the door, but even here, he can blow it. If we say, you slut, I thought you were special for a moment. She says, how dare you call me a slut? Let me tell you, I am very picky about the people I sleep with. I've only slept with 10 or 20 people this month. I think this conversation is over. And we lose our chance. If instead we say, you know, I'm just a normal guy like everyone else. Why my friends always say, Oxhorn, you're just so cool, because you're normal just like everyone else. Yep, normal, that's me. But that boars her. And she says, how disappointing. You are just like everyone else, aren't you? And we miss our opportunity. If however we say, well, I would never known anyone as interesting as you are. She blushes, stop, she says, you're embarrassing me. You're just the sweetest thing. Why don't you come over here and sit by me? So we're one step closer. But again, we find a number of ways to blow it. We can color a slut again, which garners her angry, I'm not a slut speech. Or if we say, all right, you know, I won it, baby. Or I thought you'd never ask. Why don't we get a little more comfortable? She then gives us the, you're just like everyone else's speech. The only way to convince her is to hold back and say, you know what, Miria, I think this is going too far. Can't we just talk? And she says, I can't take this anymore. You're perfect. And she rips off her clothes, our clothes, and then... And we wake up to find a similar situation. Grisham barges through the door. What's going on here? Daddy says, Miria. Uh oh, says the chosen one. How dare you sell the honor of my Miria? There's only one way to make this right. You might explain in what you're doing with my daughter, he says. We can get out of it at this point by saying, I'm a doctor. And I was just giving her a complete physical. Really, he says? Then why were you both naked? Germs? I mean, germs. Very important to be clean when doing these examinations. If our speech skill is high enough, Grisham says, well, as long as you're a doctor, I guess it's okay. You best get dressed, though. Rumors tend to start because of misunderstandings like this. But while you're here, I've been having these pains down in my anus. And I was wondering if you could take a look at it. The chosen one can say, uh, I'll take a look at that later. I have another patient waiting for me. By... And Grisham walks off. And we can leave without being forced to marry his daughter. Of course, at any time, we can repeat this process. Miria is always happy to see us again. But if our speech skill is not high enough, Grisham doesn't buy it. Yeah, he says, why don't you just come with me to get the preacher? Don't try anything funny. Or you'll need a doctor. If instead of trying to get out of it, we own it up to it and we say, let me explain it to you gently, pops. There are these birds and these bees you see. And he says, that's just great. I'm gonna have a smart ass as a son-in-law. Well, come on, son. Let's get this over with. Or if we try to plead our way out of it by saying, this isn't what it appears to be. Grisham is understanding. He says, let me see. It looks to me that you and my daughter were imitating the brawman during mating season. And all we can do is own up to it at this point and say, okay, maybe it is what it appears to be, but it's only sacks. It's not like there's love involved or anything. And Grisham understands perfectly. Hormones, he says. And it'd be in that special time of year. I'm glad you understand, says the chosen one. And he says, I do understand, but I hope you understand that you both are gonna have to get hitched. Can't have rumors flying about town, you know? Come along and let's go to the preacher. Don't make me fill ya full a buckshot. Whichever of these options we chose, if we couldn't talk our way out of it with high enough speech, we arrived back at the church. And Sheriff Joe goes through the entire ceremony again, but this time with Miria. Like with Devon, Miria then joins us as a permanent companion with all the same restrictions as Devon. We can't fire her. She never levels up and she's rubbish at combat. But since neither of these outcomes are particularly rewarding, I think we'll skip both. And walk away as unencumbered as when we arrived at Modok. Moving out of the home, we can move north. We see a Brahman lying on the ground. But he's not dead. He's wounded with a broken leg. We can use our doctor skill repeatedly to try and cure the poor Brahman. Success requires at least 25% in doctor. But even if we have that, it may take numerous attempts to succeed. But if we are eventually successful, we are in 200 experience points. The Brahman is so overjoyed that he follows us around Modok until we leave. Just north of here we find the slaughterhouse, and it's covered with the pewtrophying remains of many slaughtered animals, described by the Pipboy as disgusting, noxious goo. Heading out of the pen, we can move to the building just north of the church. The woman here is Balthas' wife. All she says when we try to talk with her is, I miss my son. Heading into the master bedroom, we find some babies and rocks in a locker. This must have been her son's room. Rocks for the slingshot babies for a baby gun. Interesting that we don't find a baby gun here though. And moving it to the top room, we find 100 caps stashed in this locker. Heading out of Balthas' house and exploring the Tanner shop right next to the house, we find Balthas himself. And as promised, he does sell leather gear, but it's not much, though he does have almost 500 dollars to barter with. And we notice however that Balthas seems preoccupied. We only notice this if we pass a perception check. We can ask him, is there something wrong? And he chastises us. I don't discuss my personal life with strangers. Do you have business with me or not? We can be polite to him and say pardon me. My name is Oxhorn. And now that we are properly introduced, you seem troubled. And he says, I'm worried about my missing son, Johnny. We've searched everywhere, but we can't find him. He thinks that maybe wild animals got him. We can offer our help. And he says, thank you. Every little bit helps. His response here is a little bit different if we have high karma and high Modoc reputation. After asking the same question, instead he responds by saying, did you say Oxhorn? Yes, I think I've heard of you. One of the guards on a passing caravan mentioned some good things about a person with that name. I know we've just met, but I could really use your help. He then goes on to tell us the same story that his son, Johnny, went missing. But this way we get an added detail. He picks up a metal chisel and starts to ring it anxiously. To our amazement, the chisel begins to bend like putty. This guy is strong. He must be really racked with grief. We can say I'm sorry about your kid, but what could I possibly do? And he says, well, you have the air of an experienced traveler. With your skills, maybe he'll be able to track down my son. After agreeing, he says, my prayers are answered. Take Ladi with you. Maybe he can help. Please hurry. And then we notice him. Standing next to Balthus is a little dog named Ladi. Balthus won't offer Ladi's help unless we have high enough karma and town reputation to trigger his chisel dialogue. After the conversation, the dog races out of the tannery straight towards the well in the middle of town. Following him, whoof whoof whoof. What's the matter, boy? Are you trying to tell me something? Whoof whoof. Is Johnny some place close by in Modok? Whoof whoof. Near the well? Whoof whoof. Did Johnny fall down the well, Ladi? Whoof. I see he was playing Cowboys and Indians when he accidentally fell down the well, and you want me to get a rope to go down and rescue him. Okay, let's go, Ladi. That was astounding. Well, taking a note from the sitcom Lassie, we divide the meaning of our intrepid companion here and take the boards off of the well. Then throwing a rope down, we arrive at the bottom. At the bottom of the well, we see a bunch of coin bags littering the ground. These were thrown in back when the well was full of water, and people made wishes, which is why if we loot them, we lose town reputation. So we'll leave these here. Ladi comes with us, not sure how he learned to climb a rope, but he doesn't give us any more help. However, after exploring the rubble, we find a BB gun, lying by some rocks, examining it in our inventory. We see that it's Johnny's BB gun. It's a red-rider BB gun, with the name Johnny scratched on the stock. And since we find it amongst all of this rubble, that can only mean one thing. Incidentally, this entire experience was recreated in Fallout New Vegas as a wild wasteland event. However, we can only trigger this event if we have Rex, the cybernetic dog as a companion. If we do, we can explore Jimmy's well, and at the bottom of it, we find a BB gun. I covered it in my video on Rex that you can watch here. Climbing out of the well, we can return to Balthus at the Tannery. Any luck finding my Johnny, he says? We can present the BB gun, and tell him that we found it at the bottom of the old dry well. I'm sorry, but I believe Johnny is dead. Balthus says that's Johnny's BB gun alright? No! And he breaks down and starts to cry uncontrollably. Heading into Balthus' house, his wife still tells us to please find Johnny, and Laddy is still following us around, almost as if they don't believe he's dead. Oh, maybe he's not. Did he survive the cave, then? We all have to keep our eyes open. Moving north to the exit grid, we see a man standing by some trees. He says that daytime is the best time to go to the ghost farm. Just north of him is Rose's bed in breakfast. Inside we find Rose. My, aren't you a strapping young man, she says? She doesn't want to talk with us unless we order something first. She has quite a selection. Brahman Fry's for five bucks. A wasteland onlet for 25 bucks. Water, a thousand bucks. Brahman dogs, five bucks. Dog burgers, seven bucks. We're shepherds too for three bucks. Well, let's get one of these omelets we keep hearing about. Ah, that's my specialty, she says. I hope you're hungry. I guarantee you've never tasted an omelet like this one anywhere. She leaves and returns with the biggest damn omelet we've ever seen. And we feel revitalized after eating such a big meal. Then she's willing to talk. She's never heard of a geck, though, she says. She does know a few good soup recipes that require geckos. And when we ask her about the ghost farm, she shivers involuntarily. Stay away from there, she says. I've heard tales from travelers about rotting bodies, tying to stakes, and glowing shapes moving through the fields at night. She doesn't know how much of that is true, but she does know that a while back, Carl moved out of there and hasn't been seen since. When we ask her where she gets such large eggs to make such large omelets, she says, ah, that's my desert omelet, delicious, wasn't it? Some people say it has healing properties, but then she looks around nervously and pretends that some customers just came up to talk with her. And she never finishes answering our question. When we ask her about the burgers, she says our burgers are made of nothing, but the choicest select grade A dog. And to give it a unique smoky flavor, they're grilled over dried brahmin' done. Hmm, smoky. As we're about to leave a patron says, stay away from the brahmin' fries. Well, I think we'll stay away from everything here. Moving north, we find the bed portion of this bed in breakfast, a lot of empty rooms, each with empty lockers. But in the northern most room, we find a man standing by a desk named Cornelius, and he claims that he is really the one who runs Rose's bed in breakfast. We can quiz him on this, we say, well, have you run the place wise it called Rose's bed in breakfast? He says, oh, well Rose is my wife. He chose to name the place after her, but he really runs it. Did you know by the way that I'm married? Okay. The place would fall apart if it wasn't for Cornelius here. According to Cornelius, the outhouse he says is the cleanest outhouse we've ever seen. That's his doing. Then he begins to ponder, I hear Grishim is trying to marry off his kids. I wonder if Rose wouldn't mind if I got another wife. Now he just begins to talk randomly. Grishim is a nice fellow, he sells scraps to feed the giant chicken. Daven is a nice kid, I wonder why he doesn't look anything like his father. Stay away from the chicken coop. I almost lost an arm feeding that thing, and then he just repeats this stuff over and over again. We get the impression that he has a few screws, loose. But despite this, listening to his ramblings gives us a few clues to some of the other events going on around town. He says, myria is a nice girl. We used to play doctor when she was little. Is he admitting to sexually abusing her as a kid? What the heck? Laddie is a smart dog, I talked to him all the time. I saw Johnny playing by the wealth, his dog Laddie. What a nice kid. I was sitting on the toilet one day and a big dog climbed out of the sewer. Scared me half to death. If we comment on this and say, you need some serious help, old man, he says, you'll help me? That's great. Go beat up Farrell and get my watch back. He probably hit it good, so tear his house apart and look for it. But there's something about his story that doesn't add up. He says that he remembers setting his watch down on his desk, then when he looked at the kitchen table it was gone. Okay, so he lost a watch, but we don't really know who has it. I suppose we should track down this Farrell person and see what he knows. Before we head out we can talk with Rose about Cornelius' missing watch. She thinks that Cornelius is wrong, that Farrell didn't take it. She says that Cornelius is starting to lose his mind. Moving south of the bed in breakfast we find another shack, and inside we find Farrell. I didn't steal the watch, stop coming over here and harassing poor old Farrell. He is adamant that he didn't steal the watch. Apparently we're not the first ones Cornelius has sent to Farrell looking for it. Instead he says that he thinks he's victim of the same thief. Around the same time Cornelius lost his gold watch, Farrell here had some of his tools stolen, and he invites us to take a look around. There's nothing in his living room or in the eastern room. Going north we can go through a door to inspect his bedroom, and sure enough we don't find anything here. Until we look behind a ruined, upturned twin bed in the living room. There if we look closely we find a wall safe against the eastern wall. If we try to pick it, Farrell says, hey, get away from there. What do you hide in the wall safe we can say? And he says, how did you find that? I hid the wall safe so that no one would be able to find it. You must be a professional thief, and then an idea goes off in his head. Where were you when the gold watch disappeared? I think you'd better leave. And nothing had better be missing from the safe. If we go through this chain of events, even if we never found the gold watch, we can go back to Cornelius and say, Farrell's got your watch in a wall safe. Let's string him up. But Cornelius doesn't believe us. He says, there's nothing in there. Sheriff Joe and myself looked there already. If we choose to try and frame Farrell, we don't earn any experience, but we do gain negative karma. If we kill Farrell and manage to open his wall safe, it's empty. Not only does he not have the watch, but he doesn't have anything of value either. So instead of killing him or framing him for the theft, we can chat with him about the town. He tells us much of what we already know, that it's a farming town and it's suffering from drought. He however is a gardener. He's trying to make the plants in his garden grow, but something moved into his garden. And he can't seem to get rid of it. He can't offer us a reward for clearing his garden. He's just a poor old man. But we can offer to help him anyway. He says his garden is a little ways east of here. He'll take us to it. The screen fades to black and we arrive at his garden. We see that the infestation is none other than pig rats. This is a pretty easy, if long and tedious, battle when done we can leave to the west, where we arrive back at the northern side of Modok. Adding back to Farrell's home, we can tell him the good news. He thinks us repeatedly, but all we walk away with is a warm fuzzy feeling. But in reality, we walk away with 300 experience, though if we have less than four intelligence, he does give us a cookie. Before we leave, he says that if we come across Cornelius' watch, we should give it to him instead of Cornelius. You see, he and Cornelius were really good friends, and he misses his friend, and he hates the thought that Cornelius thinks that he's a thief. Farrell here has tried to find the watch, but hasn't had any luck. So if we come across it, we can check in with Farrell. We can ask many of the people around town about the gold watch. Heading to Grishim, we can say, you wouldn't have happened to have seen a gold watch laying around somewhere, would ya? And he says, great jump and horny jack-o snatchers! Is Cornelius still looking for his lost watch? Why can't he accept that it's gone? That dang watch never worked anyways, and I'll be a brawman's uncle if it was actually made of gold. Give it up, you'll never find it. We can say, actually, Farrell asked us to look for it. And he says, you've got to be kidding. Everyone knows Farrell took the watch. Why would he ask you to search for it? Unless Farrell didn't steal the watch after all. Or maybe this is a trick to convince everyone that he didn't take it. I need to think this out. Oh great, so Grishim has no help to us at all. But then we remember something Cornelius said when he was rambling on and on. He said it down on his desk, no wait, was it the kitchen counter? Seems like he said it down a lot and couldn't remember where he put it. Then he told us about how he really liked to clean the outhouse. He was proud of it, that was all him. And then he mentioned something about being scared by a dog that left at him from the sewers. Oh, if he spends a lot of time in the outhouse, maybe he said it down in there. But lifting the lid to the toilet, we notice a ladder leading to the sewers below. If we climb down the ladder, we arrive in a rocky room surrounded by goo. There's an overwhelming smell of methane gas down here. One tiny spark would blow this hole sky high. There's a big pile of rocks blocking the path ahead. Maybe we can use this methane to our advantage. Taking out a stick of dynamite, we can set the timer and then race up the ladder. As soon as we surface... Oh no, outhouse goo covers the town of Modok. Cornelius's poor beautiful outhouse is gone, but the ladder is still there. We can climb down and show enough the big pile of rocks is gone. Heading north, we see a giant mole rat at the end of the tunnel. So this was the dog that so startled Cornelius and likely stole his watch. And at the very end we find a big pile of bones and nestled in the bones, is Cornelius's gold watch. Snagging it, we can take the ladder back topside. Now we have a couple of choices. We can try to deliver the watch directly to Cornelius. Heading into Rose's bed and breakfast, which is now covered in all sorts of biological goo, we can go to Cornelius's back room and present him the watch. We have a few ways to do so. We can say it seems an industrious rat made off with your watch. I recovered it from its nest. And he says, that's my watch. What are you doing with it? Give it back and he snatches it out of our hands. I think you'd better go. We don't take kindly to thieves around here. The chosen one can walk away saying, that's gratitude for you. And we earn 1500 experience and 10 karma. Or we can tell him a lie and say, I found your watch at Ferrell's house. You were right. Ferrell is the thief. And Cornelius says, I knew it. I'll teach him a lesson he'll never forget. You'd better stay here or you might get hurt. And with that Cornelius marches out of Rose's bed and breakfast and straight to Ferrell's house. I always knew you were a thief. He says, I didn't steal your stupid watch. Ferrell says, and the two of them bicker back and forth. How could you do this to your best friend? I'm innocent. I tell you, I'm gonna kill you. You couldn't hit the broad side of a barn. I'm gonna mount your head on my wall. I didn't steal your stupid watch. And on and on they go. If we choose this option, we only earn 500 experience and we lose five karma. The final option is to take the gold watch directly to Ferrell. Is this the watch you were looking for? Let me see that says Ferrell. Yes, this is it. You said, a rat living down the sewage hole stole it. And you climbed down there and retrieved it. Eww. I'm gonna give this to Cornelius right now. Now we can be friends again. Thank you. And with that, Ferrell walks out of his house and marches over to Rose's bed and breakfast. If we choose to give it to Ferrell, we also earn 1500 experience and 10 karma. Moving west, we find a big barn next to the bed and breakfast. We just see Brahman in their pens. There's a little storage shed here, but nothing in the bookcase. There's a kid in here. Is that Johnny? Why don't you just go talk to someone else? Oh, okay, I guess it's not Johnny. Heading north out of the barn, we find the chicken coop. And as Miria told us, it looks formidable. There's a chain link barbed wire fence all the way around it. If we open the front door, we immediately get attacked by wild dogs. We see that the door to the chicken coop is blocked in with a bunch of rocks. To clear both the wild dogs and the rock pile, we can quickly plant some dynamite and then race away. The explosion kills the dogs in a big bloody mess and reveals an open door. And out of the door comes a death claw and it immediately attacks. So her omelets were made with death claw eggs. No wonder they weighed 12 pounds and were so huge. It's a bit of a tricky fight. If the death claw sees us immediately, he races right towards us and he can knock us out in one or two hits. But if we stand far enough back, he leaves the chicken coop and walks around a bit. Then we can fire at him from range, getting a few shots off before he can reach us. And then it's just a matter of picking him off with our companions. For killing the death claw, we earn a hundred experience. Inside the death claw cage, we find bones lying all over, but nothing really of interest. Incidentally, killing this death claw is a canonical event in the story of Modok. Years later, we meet Rose's grand knees serving food in the town of Sloan. After doing quests for her, she gives them a chance to get a death claw. And then she gets a death claw. And then she gets a death claw. After doing quests for her, she gives us Rose's wasteland omelette recipe. And she explains that she got it from her great aunt, who used to keep a death claw in a pen until a traveler came through and shot it in the eye. And you should recognize her voice actress. Let me ask you a question. What's the tastiest thing you've ever eaten? I've got this recipe for a death claw omelette that I've been itching to try out. Trouble is, I need a death claw egg. Kind of obvious, my suppose. My great aunt Rose ran a bed and breakfast back in California in a town called Modok. She's the one who created the recipe in the first place. I don't know how she managed to get a hold of a female death claw, but she kept it in a shed. Aunt Rose had a steady supply of eggs for her omelettes. At least, she did until some stranger came along and killed the death claw. Shot it right in the eye. Of course, a death claw egg from anywhere will do. According to my aunt Rose, those things have a ridiculously long shelf life. That's right, it's another than Courtney Taylor, the voice actress for the female soul survivor. Now we need to head to the ghost farm. With it marked on our map, we find it as a tiny location, just northeast of Modok. Upon arrival, we see bodies on stakes. The site is even more terrifying during the day. These poor people have been crucified. But upon closer inspection, we realized that these bodies appear to be fake. They're nothing but dummies, covered in brawman innards. All of them, and there are dozens of them here, lining the road north. Who would take the time to crucify a bunch of fake bodies? But then we see it, often the distance, a bunch of glowing ghosts lumbering around. So the stories are all true. It is a ghost farm. Heading up the path, we're accosted by a bunch of guards. Surrender or die, they say? We can say die, in which case a battle commences. And it's tricky to survive. There are a lot of guards here. So instead we'll say surrender, in which case the guards take us to an underground hideout. Allow me to apologize for the unpleasant circumstances under which we met, says a heavily armored man. This is vegier, the leader of these underground dwellers. They usually try to scare people off, rattling chains, making low moaning sounds. But they've changed their policy, and then I'll take any intruders they find below ground. When we ask him what they want, he says a simple request. We need to make contact with the town to the southwest. They believe it's called Modok. Before we agree to do them this favor, we can ask a few questions. Fair enough, he says. I wouldn't expect anyone to blindly accept tasks from strangers, without first learning a little bit about them. When we ask why he doesn't send one of his own to talk with the people of Modok, he says, since the ceiling, we as a people have changed. Few can bear to be on the surface because they are not used to having a black sea of nothingness above them. The people living below have a sensation of falling upwards. It's so strong that they remain frozen, clutching the ground. But more than that, they can't stand the sun. They have lived underground for so long that their eyes are too sensitive. They can't travel far from their home beneath ground. Once long ago, they lived above ground like all of the other surface dwellers. During the Great War of 2077, their ancestors, who were part of a secret militia, sealed themselves in their families in the caves beneath ground for protection. Here they remained, hidden within the womb of Mother Earth for generations. If we ask him why the big charade on the surface, the ghosts, the fake bodies, he says years ago someone tried to take over our farm, harvesting crops and stealing animals they had no right to. We are not a violent people by nature, but something had to be done. And so they came up with the ghost idea. Smirring themselves with glowing fungus, they scared away anyone who tried to take over their farm. And at last it makes sense. Sheriff Joe told us that the farm appeared from nowhere, but these underdwellers made the farm. They came topside at night to farm the crops, but no one from Modok ever saw them because they only came to the farm at day. When Carl moved in, thinking the farm was abandoned, the underdwellers took him to be a thief, and so plastered themselves with glowing fungus pretending to be ghosts. That's how the place became known as the Ghost Farm. It was all a trick. But the strategy has become too effective. Now they've developed a reputation as a ghost farm and no one wants to come and talk to them. You see they've recently completed some new irrigation systems, and their food supply exceeds their needs. They want to establish trade with Modok to sell their surplus food for much needed medicines. Their population has been increasing. They don't have the medicine necessary to help everyone. If we ask him about his people or about their defenses, he becomes impatient. Enough. No more questions. Make your decision now. If we say no, I'm not going to help you, he says I'm sorry to hear that. Please consider yourself a guest of the slags. But we're not allowed to leave this place until he establishes communication with the people of Modok. Or of course, unless we agree to establish that communication for them. Well, since we're free to explore, we'll do just that. There's a bunch of food and booze in the refrigerator in this room. We find a couple of foot lockers, both of which have food and water. Wow, they really do have an excess of supplies. Heading out of this little shack, we can move west. If we arrive during the day, we find these chambers below ground filled with all sorts of people. But if we arrive at night, the place is nearly empty. That's because at night, everyone's above ground, working the fields farming. But during the day, they stay below ground because they can't stand the sun. There are some bookshelves in a small makeshift library. Here we find a baton, some healing powder, and a picture of Elvis. And in the shelf next to this, we find 44 magnum and 10 millimeter ammunition. In the bedroom to the north, we find even more food, stuffs, and booze. And then we find a path leading to an exit grid to the north. We arrive at an underground pool, and there's a water pump nearby. And here are a bunch of children. Most of them run away saying, help me, we are after all a stranger. But if we arrive with Laddy, Laddy runs up to one of the children. They all look the same. It would otherwise be hard to discover. Johnny. Laddy, I've missed you, boy. Says Johnny. Thank you for bringing my dog back to me. When we ask him his name, he says, my name is Johnny. What's yours? We can tell him that we know his mother and father. Your parents are looking for you, Johnny. And he says, that's swell. I want to go home. But Vigir, the guy in charge down here, says that his people can't travel above ground and can't take him home. Then he begins to down our story. What exactly is my father's name? He asks. And we find a list of everyone we've met in town. If we answer correctly, Balthus, he says, Yippee, that's right, I'm going home. We now have to ask Vigir if it's okay to take him home. Humorously, if we get the name wrong, or if we say, tell me your name, you little monster, or would you like some candy, little kid? He stops. He points at us and starts screaming, stranger, stranger, stranger. Then he and all the other kids run around arms flailing, yelling, stranger, stranger. We have one chance at this. We can't get it right unless we do it the first time. Heading out of the pool room, we can turn right to open a door into a heavily guarded underground garden. This is a pit into which we fall if we managed to evade the guards' topside and instead walked directly into the farmhouse. If we do the floor crumbles beneath us, and we fall down into this room, the guards will allow us to walk around unless we decide to resist. Heading south to talk to Vigir, we can say, I want to take Johnny home to his parents. He responds by saying that he found Johnny wandering around in the darkness in one of their deep tunnels. He had fallen down a dry well by his house and was trapped there by a big cave-in. So that's why we found the baby gun in the well, but he managed to not get crushed by the rocks, instead he found his way here. Johnny has become part of the family here he is loved by all. For that reason, Vigir is reluctant to allow a stranger to take him back to Modok. He'll only allow Johnny to leave once we have established his trust. And we can only do that by relaying his message to the people of Modok. So aside from killing them all, our only option is to agree to his demand. Once we do, he says I knew you would understand. He asks us to deliver his message and to return when our task is complete. Now that we have Vigir's permission, the guards tip aside and we can climb a ladder to the south to escape. We arrive deep in the crops of the farm. There's a manhole and a hatch here that we didn't see earlier. Heading back to the farmhouse and now that we know there's a trap door here, we can avoid it and inspect each of these footlockers, but sadly they're all empty. We see the slags walking around. They look like glowing ones, but we know they're just covered in glowing fungus and there's nothing else to the ghost farm. So with our new found knowledge in hand, we can head back to Modok. Heading to the general store, we can talk with Joe and we can relay our message. He takes the message and reads it and says, this is incredible. They've been living underground all this time. They say they're willing to trade food for medical supplies. But Joe here doesn't know if they can be trusted. After all, he says they killed Carl, the guy who used to live at the farm. What do you think he asks? The options we have here dramatically affect the story of Modok. We can say, they're holding little Johnny hostage. We need to attack now. And Joe freaks out. You've seen Johnny there? We've been searching everywhere for him. Those monsters, they're stealing our children. We won't be safe until they're all dead. I'll get the townspeople together and we'll storm their hideout. Meet us at the Ghost Farm as soon as you can. We arrive at the Ghost Farm in the dead of night and the chosen one, along with the townspeople of Modok, attack the slags. But if we choose this option, even if we win this battle, we doom the town of Modok. For with the slags all dead, Modok has no one with whom to trade. And so the town withers away. If instead we say, I want no part of this, I was told you knew where the geck was and I fulfilled my end of the bargain. Now you owe me. He says, How can you live with yourself? Here we are in a crisis and all you can think about are your own selfish needs. Very well, why don't you go to Gecko? It's to the east of here somewhere. If anyone knows about the Geck thing, I'm sure they would. Oh, the liar he didn't know anything about the Geck. He just refers us to a nearby town called Gecko. Well great, where do we go next, Vault City or this Gecko? With that option, the townspeople out of mistrust for the slags attack them in a few short days, dooming both societies. Or we can offer to help. If we do, he says, Look, we're going to attack, but only as a last resort. The people of Modok only have enough food to last a month here in town before they begin to starve. We have until then, to find out what's really going on. But Joe here refuses to negotiate with the slags until he's certain that they didn't have anything to do with Carl's disappearance. And he wants to know why they killed and crucified, all the people at the front of the farm. He refuses to deal with savages. But then we remember it. Carl, the drunk guy we met in the den, the guy who told us that tall tale about ghosts at his farm. The slags didn't kill Carl. Carl fled out of fear. We can say, Look, there's a drunkard at the den who matches Carl's description says he used to be a farmer too. And Joe is shocked. The den, and he feels bad. They were hard on him for not believing his story about ghosts. If we travel back to the den and retrieve Carl, then Modok won't attack the slags. And so we head back to the world map and take the long trip west to the den. After a number of random encounters, we arrive at the den and track him down at mom's diner where we left him. We find an option to tell Carl everything that Joe said. He says, You mean I can go home? No more ghosts? Carl breaks down in cries. Thank you. I can finally go home again, he says. And with that, he slowly, ever so slowly, walks out of mom's diner to the exit grid. Back at the world map, we travel east again to Modok and again suffer through many random encounters. We find Carl here. He walks north through the town and meanders around. We can then tell Joe about the bodies. All those crucified corpses were fake. They're nothing but dummies covered in brawmin' innards. They just wanted to keep you from stealing the crops. Fake? Fake says Joe, but I saw them with my own eyes. Blood didn't go anywhere, but I guess it's possible. And then his face turns beat red. We all kind of turned tail and ran when we saw the bodies. No one actually touched them or got a good look. We can ask him if he'll agree to the trade agreement. And he says, Yes, I believe the slags and the people of Modok will be able to come to some kind of mutually beneficial agreement. Thank you for saving the people of Modok. Once we resolve it the good way, we can ask him to fulfill his side of the bargain. And he acts a little embarrassed. He says, Well, I don't really know anything about the Geck. You have to understand, he says we were desperate. And again, he points us towards Gecko. Well, he's a bit of a crook getting us to do all this work for him. But at least we helped out the people of this town and saved two communities. But there are still a few things we need to finish here in town. Heading north to Balthus, he says, Please leave me to my grief. But we can say Johnny is alive. Some people called the slags have rescued him. If you can wait just a little bit longer, I'm working on a way to get Johnny back home to you. And he says, I knew Johnny wasn't dead. You say I have to wait. I don't understand. Is he hurt? My instincts tell me to go to my son. But I sense you have my son's best interest at heart. Please hurry and bring my son back to me. Heading to his wife, she says, Please bring Johnny back. So, heading out of town, we can go back up to the ghost farm and take the manhole down to speak to Veggier. We can tell him the good news that the people of Modok would like to establish trade with his people. Veggier is thrilled. And as a reward, he hands us an assault rifle. We have now earned his trust. He says that he and his people will miss little Johnny. But now, along with his escort, we can bring Johnny back to his parents at Modok. With that, we earn 3,500 experience points and appear back at the town of Modok to watch the happy reunion. Laddy races out of the house to greet his boy. And we can speak to Balthus' wife. Thank you for returning Johnny to me, she says. Speaking to Balthus, Thank you for returning my boy to me. There's no way I can ever repay you. But please take this leather armor as thanks. I've been experimenting with the new curing process. I think you'll find this armor very durable. And besides, you look really good in it. With that, we earn 2,500 more experience and the combat leather jacket. The combat leather jacket has an armor class of 18, which is twice that of a regular leather jacket. Three greater than regular leather armor. It's a fine suit of armor to use now, and later we can always give it to one of our companions. After completing the quest, if we go back to Rose, she says, Oh my, it's you. Everyone is talking about how you risked your life for us. And also solved the mystery of the ghost farm. No, that you were always welcome here. And of course, all your meals are on the house. You may also rummage through the Lost and Found box and take whatever you wish as a special reward. At this point, we can say, Well, I was really hoping for one of your world famous omelets. But she says, I'm sorry, we stopped serving omelets. Some fool broke into our coop and killed our, um, chicken. I guess we'll just have to go hungry. The Lost and Found box is hiding behind her counter. But inside all we find are a couple of throwing daggers. With that, we help the people of Modok. We save Little Johnny, and we save the underground village of the slags. But we don't find a geck. And now we only have another place to explore. This town of Gecko. In our next video, we'll either head to Gecko or to Vault City to try and track down this geck. Maybe at Vault 13. I publish many Fallout videos each and every week here on my channel. So if you don't want to miss that episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you feel like you're still missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's, and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, stickers, mugs, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.