You're walking into a sea, but it's not water y'all afraid of drowning in. It's something invisible, but radiance, it burns everything in it. But no, I can feel them. There's people calling out to something, chanting they can show you the way, but they're so hard to read. Be careful around them, kid. You're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you're walking into a sea, but you are walking into a sea. We met bodies throughout far Africa, but now the place has been so expensive that I think was it that we had a chance to stay there and ask for over nine years from yesterday. is currently hiding out in the glowing sea. Many of our companions will have unique things to say about what we just experienced inside Kellogg's mind. Hey. I'm all live. Your thoughts? I certainly hope that on those side effects after traipsing about in the mind of that mercenary. Your thoughts? Just the commonwealth these days, sir. Never in my existence did I imagine we'd find ourselves in such a state, nuclear war, the Mrs. Gong, the fate of the world. With young shawl, how many lives were lost due to the war? That's tragic, sir. It truly is. Your thoughts? You know, you are some kind of dedicated. I wouldn't want to share a beer with Kellogg let alone a brain. On our way out of the memory, then, we see a crowd gathered before the balcony of the old state house. Hey, everyone, gather around. Let's kick the breeze back. She's the fat. Now, I know you all are doing your own thing, but I don't want anyone here to forget what matters. Hey, Daisy, glad you can make it. How's my favorite girl doing? Didn't I see you on a date with her? Let's get the other day. He wishes. Ha ha ha ha ha. All right, all right. Getting off track. What was I saying? Oh, that's right. What matters? We, Freaks, got to stick together. And the best way to stick together is to keep an eye out for what drives us apart. You feel me? Yeah, you tell it like it is, Hancock. Now, what out there in our big, friendly commonwealth would want to drive us apart? What kind of twisted, unnabrily, boogie man would want to hurt our peaceful community? The Institute and their sins. That's right. Who said that? Coming up to my office later, you've earned yourself some jet. The Institute. They're the real enemy. Not the Raiders. Not the Super Mutants. Not even those tools over in Diamond City. I don't know, Hancock. I'd sure love to give McDonough a kitchen. Yes. Hey, we all know I got my own personal beef with that large head. But stay focused. Now, I want everyone to keep the Institute in mind. When someone starts acting funny, when people are doing things they don't normally do. When family starts pushing you away for no reason, we all know who's behind that kind of shit. And the only way to stop it is to stick together. They can't control us if we're not afraid. Now, who's scared of the Institute? Not us. And which town in the Commonwealth should the Institute not fuck with? Good neighbor, neighbor. And who's in charge of good neighbor? Can I have a car? Out the people for the people. Remains silent during the speech. Well, this Hancock sure is a charismatic fellow. I can see why he's mayor here. A combination of charm and ruthlessness. Go a long way and good neighbor. But now, our best bet at finding young Sean is to venture into this glowing sea to find the rogue institute scientist named Virgil in hopes that he can help us get inside. The problem is that the glowing sea is one of the most inhospitable places in all of the Commonwealth. It's called the glowing sea not because it's a sea that glows, but rather, to explore it, we wade into a radioactive wasteland. It's a sea of radiation. The land is scorched. And so before we can explore it, we've got to find a way to survive it. Now, both Dr. Murray and Nick Valentine told us that it might be useful to wear some power armor. But power armor requires fusion cores. And I didn't know how long I was going to be there. And the last thing I wanted to do was run out in the middle of the glowing sea. So instead, we need to find ourselves a radiation suit. Thankfully, it's easy to find one at Diamond City, heading into Fallon's basement. We find one on Fallon's inventory. She sells a hazmat suit for around 230 caps. At this point, it should be within our budget. A radiation suit gives us 1,000 radiation damage resist, which is about as good as you can get in the commonwealth. Now, it doesn't grant us very much armor protection. And in order to use it, we have to take off the rest of our armor. So while we're exploring the glowing sea, we'll be vulnerable. The glowing sea is far to the southwest of Diamond City. So heading out the door to Diamond City, we take the road to Southwest, following the same path that we used to find Fort Hagen. Only instead of following the train tracks, we cross the train tracks and continue to follow the road Southwest. Eventually, the road meets a drawbridge. The drawbridge is partially drawn. And we can't jump up there. Our only option right now is to dive into the water and swim across to the other side. On the other side, we can head back to the road and continue to follow it Southwest. The brotherhood is starting to become active. We see there are vertebrates flying overhead and engaging with hostels in the Commonwealth. Eventually, we see that the road before us is fenced off. However, there's a break in the fence that allows us to continue to follow the road West. The road, the air, south, and the vertebrates are really buzzing in the air here. Soon we begin to see fallen trees dotting the landscape. The trees are gray and some of them charred. None of them have leaves. And we don't see any animals. Eventually, the road ends. And all we find before us is broken, cracked land, and the husks of dead trees. We pass by orange radioactive pools and then the atmosphere begins to change. The air around us becomes thick with green radioactive fog. And at last, we have entered the glowing sea. The glowing sea is dangerous, not just for its radiation, but for the creatures that live here. It's hard to walk far at all without bumping into a rad scorpion or a death clon. And the glowing sea is home to a number of treasures as well. Since it's so radioactive, few people venture here, which means many of the ruins have yet to be looted. By fully exploring the glowing sea, we can walk away with power armor, fusion cores, perk magazines, a bunch of really useful stuff. I covered the glowing sea in its entirety and the secrets we can find here in a video that you can watch here. We don't have time right now to explore everything here, but it would be a shame to move on without at least taking a moment to enjoy the devastation and the strange beauty that the glowing sea has to offer. The glowing sea is a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. It's a very rare place. Often the distance. We see a mountain with its top blown off. Or maybe it's an impact crater with steep sloping sides and light glows from within. Heading that way, we trudge up the slippery slope of the crater, littered with jagged rocks, until we crest the rim of the crater, and peer down inside. It's hard to see what's inside the crater, what with the radioactive fog, the floating radioactive particles, and its night. But we see that the pools of radioactive waste inside the crater are glowing, revealing a number of structures. Venturing further in, we discover the crater of Adam. Who would live out in the middle of the glowing sea? Stepping into one of these huts, we find containers and some scrap, but it's all set to owned. And then we find its owner, Brother Ward. Word of Adam's glory must be spread to all. He appears to be part of some sort of religious cult. But then we remember, what was it that Mama Murphy said? There's people calling out to some people, calling out to something chanting they can show you the way. So these people can point us in the right direction, if only we can find their leader, continuing to explore. We find Brother Foster. May the glow of Adam guide your path. Then, kneeling before a hut, we find Sister Verena. The world will be shown Adam's glory. And as we approach one of the larger huts, a voice calls out to us. Stop right there, stranger. You approach Adam's holy ground. Why? State your purpose or be divided in his sight. Holy ground, Adam? What's going on here? Adam reached out and touched this world, bringing his glow to us. It remains to this day a reminder of his promise. Infinite worlds through division. I must have taken a wrong turn somewhere. The glowing sea has no turns. Only a path to Adam's glow. And now you have reached the end of that path. You are here. You people live here? This place is a dump. You are not one of Adam's chosen. Save your judgment for those who care what mortals think. I'm here because I need your help. Do you seek division? Have you come to merge with Adam? To be split in his infinite glory? Or do you seek to tear down his followers? There wouldn't be a place I could resupply around here, would there? Hmm. You may seek brother Ogden. He should have some provisions on offer. For a price. What is this place? This is where we commune with Adam himself. I am surprised you have survived long enough to reach it. I mean you know harm. I swear. Few make the effort to travel so far. Very well. You may stay for now. But know that we are watching. Violence will not be tolerated. You're worshipping what? Radiation? You're crazy. Adam provides foreign protects us. If you are unwilling to accept his embrace, then I suggest you leave and never return. I'm looking for someone named Virgil. Virgil? Yes. We know this Virgil. Uh... Okay then. Well, we have to ask about Virgil again. I'm looking for someone named Virgil. Have you seen him? Yes. I know of him. What do you want with him? Why do you even care? He's not one of your people. True. He is not a child of Adam. But he has sought refuge in Adam's glow. And Adam granted it. I would not question the will of Adam. What do you want with him? That's my business. Not yours. He has come to the glowing sea seeking Adam's shelter. It is my business. State your intentions. What do you want with him? We could try to threaten her. I said it's my business. Now are you going to tell me or does this have to get ugly? I do not trust you. I will speak no further of the matter. You will leave it once and never return. Or if we pass the charisma check... Perhaps it is best that I leave his fate to Adam. Or instead of passing a difficult orange charisma check to threaten her, we can pass a yellow charisma check. I just need some information from him. He has sought refuge with Adam. I would know more before I tell you where he is. What do you want with him? But if we pass the charisma check... I see. Or we can get exactly the same information by simply asking about the institute. I need his help reaching the institute. I have heard of this institute. They hide themselves trying to avoid the power of Adam. A futile effort. In truth, this Virgil has caused some concern. Some believe his presence is in a front to Adam. Though he came to trade with us on a few occasions, we have had little other contact with him. It was quite clear he wanted to be left alone. You can find him southwest of the crater, living in a cave. I would approach cautiously where I you. I feel he does not want visitors. Okay, he is living in a cave southwest of the crater. But dialogue is not the only way we can learn this information. If instead we crouched behind Mother Resold and tried to pick Pocketer, on her inventory we would find a note from Brother Hoberman. Mother Resold, we have found the cave where this Virgil resides southwest of the crater. It is defended as you suspected. And here the remainder of the text is cut off. However, it exists in the game files. The cut off portion reads, We will not act against him until we have word from you, or a sign from Adam himself. Signed Brother Hoberman. Exploring the rest of the crater, we discover a few things but not much. In Mother Resold as Cabin, we find a couple of containers filled with scrap, but this is all set to owned. And then lying on a side table next to a chair, we find a copy of astoundingly awesome tales. Bingo. You have collected an issue of astoundingly awesome tales. Curse of the burned. We deal 5% damage against ghouls. Heading out of her cabin and turning right, we find the cabin of Brother Ogden. All those seeking Adam are welcome. Or is it something more tangible you require? What have you got for sale? Whatever Adam provides for us. It is not much true, but you may find something of value. I'll think about it. I shall be here. Don't need anything today. Adam guide you. Sure. Let's take a look very well. He doesn't have much. He has some ammunition, some thrown explosives, some scrap, a moussel launcher, a few other weapons, but most importantly, he's got around 200 caps to barter with. And if we happen to be running low, he does sell 6 rad X and 8 rad away. Further exploration of the crater of Adam reveals little, other than sister Lila. Adam will lead us all to glorious division. And Brother Griffith sleeping on a bed. Word of Adam's glory must be spread to all. So looks like in order to find this Virgil, we need to head south west somewhere. Climbing out of the crater, we crest the ridge and head down the other side. We stumble upon a bunch of rad scorpions along the way. And some sting wings. As we get closer to some mountains, we stumble upon a death claw. Now the last thing we found a death claw, we were in a full suit of power armor and we had a minigun. It's a bit harder with just righteous authority and my hazmat suit. In order to kill this thing, we got to get the jump on him. So moving up into the hills, we can sneak around behind him and lob a few grenades. And if we're lucky, we can kill it. This death claw was guarding the mouth of a rocky cave. And creeping closer we discover Virgil's laboratory. Inside the cave we see a spotlight in the distance. Creeping closer we can risk alerting him. There are turrets here, but they're not hostile. Moving forward we see a Protectoron, but it doesn't fire. And then we find Virgil. But he's green. Add big. He's a super mutant. Hold it. Take it nice and slow. No sudden moves. I know you're from the Institute. So where's Kellogg? Huh? Trying to sneak up on me while you distract me? It's not going to work. I'm not stupid. I knew they'd send him after me. Are you Virgil? You know damn well I am. What are you doing here? I'm just here to talk. Let's go. Then talk. Fast. You're a super mutant. Yes. Clearly you have functioning eyes. Congratulations. I'm hoping you didn't come here just to point that out. Now what do you want? You have information I need. And yet I have no idea who the hell you are. I think we both better start explaining. You start. I need your help. My help. With what? How did you even find me anyway? You're gonna help me. When I'm going to hurt you. You're off to a great start with that. Do you see the size of these arms? Any idea what I can do to your head with them? I don't think you want to start off things by threatening me. Who the hell are you anyway? How did you find me? Can you tell me about the institute or not? It doesn't matter. What does is what you know about the institute. Don't change the subject. I'm the one asking questions here. I want to know about the institute. And I want to know now. I'm just a guy looking for information on the institute. The institute? So they did send you, didn't they? You're working with Kellogg. Why are you so afraid of Kellogg? Do you have any idea what that man has done? What the institute pays him to do? It's all off the book stuff. The man is a killer. And he's very good at what he does. Aren't you a coward? A huge hulking monster like you is afraid of a dead man. But Kellogg's been taken care of. You're gonna end up just as dead if you don't give me what I want. Take it easy. Kellogg's dead. Relax. Big guy. Kellogg won't be coming after you. He's dead. Dead. He's dead. Don't you lie to me. Is it so hard to believe? Of course it is. He's dead. Whether you believe me or not. There's no question it's difficult to believe. I killed him myself. I don't have time for this. If you are telling the truth, then you must understand my skepticism. I'm not lying. I killed him myself. Did you? Kellogg was ruthless. There's a reason the institute used him to do their dirty work for so many years. I knew they'd send him after me. Try to prepare for it. But I still wasn't sure I'd make it. And so you... You killed him, eh? Then what do you want with me? Why did you leave the institute? I know you came from there. You know about the escape? But how? This is one of the few charisma checks where the person we're talking to has the exact same response. Whether we pass it or not. You and I both know you were part of the institute. And you escaped. How do you know that? I'm not an idiot. I know you were part of the institute. How could you possibly know that? I know you were part of it. And you escaped. They sent Kellogg to kill you. How the hell do you know any of that? No. It doesn't matter. I'm not going back. I can't go back. Look at me. Why are you even here? What do you want? Can you tell me anything about the institute? I need to get in there. Can I? Are you joking? I need whatever information you've got. Anything to help me get into the institute. I'm sorry. What? Quit your whining. I just need to know how to get inside. It's not whining if... Wait. What? Relax. I just need to know how to get in there. Wait. What? Are you serious? You want to get into the institute? Are you insane? Never mind how nearly impossible that is. Even if you were to succeed and it almost certainly end in your immediate death, would reason could you possibly have for taking that kind of risk? It...it doesn't matter. Have you seriously want anything from me? You're going to have to do better than that. But if we pass the charisma check... Fine. You know what? I don't even want to know. You want to get yourself killed as you are problem. But I'm telling you, that's what's going to happen. They kidnapped someone. And I want him back. Oh, no. Look. I... I didn't know. I mean, I didn't realize that's what you were after. Would you believe the institute kidnapped my son? Oh, yeah. I'd... I'd believe that... wouldn't be the first time. Look, I'm... Sorry. Really, sorry. I didn't know. I'm trying to find my son. The institute kidnapped him. Oh. Oh no. I had no idea. I'm sorry. Yeah. The institute has taken people from the Commonwealth in the past. If your son is one of them, I can understand why you want to get in there. I can help. But... I'm going to need something in return. What do you want from me? Before I had to escape, I was working on a serum that would serve as a cure for my... condition. I wasn't able to break it with me. It's still in my lap and... Well, look at me. I need it. I need you to find it for me if you manage to get inside the institute. What do you say? I'll think about it. I need some assurance from you. Come on. Not a chance. I'm not doing anything for you. Then I'm afraid I can't do anything for you. Good luck finding your way back to... wherever you came from. If we try to kill Virgil for some reason, we find that he's one of the few characters who's marked as Immortal. He can't be killed. We anger all of the Protectrons and robots in this cave. We can get Virgil to a sliver of life, but he just kneels down. When he recovers, he's hostile and won't talk with us. Not sure why we'd want to attack Virgil. At this point in the story, since he's our only lead, but that's what happens if we do. Or we can say, You help me and I'll help you. All right. If I help you, you are going to do something for me. Before I was forced to leave, I was working on a serum to reverse this mutation. It could return me to normal. You understand? So if you get in there, I need you to find it in my old office and bring it to me. I think that's pretty reasonable. An exchange for helping you. All right. Let's talk details. First things first. You know how synths get in and out of the institute? Why does it matter? Because I say it matters. Pay attention. I'm not sure, but I've seen some strange things. I'll bet you have. It's a grossly guarded secret, kept hidden from every one above ground. Not really. No. Almost no one on the surface does. And that's on purpose. They like to keep it a secret. Yeah, they use some sort of teleporter. Well, well. Not many know about it. Pretty closely guarded secret. You've certainly done your homework. It's commonly referred to as the molecular relay. I don't understand all the science behind it, but it works. D materializes you in one place. Re-materializes you in another. I'm sure it sounds crazy, but it's a reality. The relay is the only way in and out of the institute. You understand the only one. That means you're going to have to use it. No. Have you ever seen an institute coarser? A coarser? What's that? Another institute secret. Yeah, I don't really know. Doesn't sound familiar. Not surprising. They do come out often. And when they do, you see them. No. Never heard of it. Another secret of the institute. Trust me, it's good that you haven't found out the hard way. Sure. Well, that's of them. Don't bullshit me. More than one of them, and you wouldn't be standing here right now. Coarsers are institute synths designed for one purpose. Their hunters. Operations go wrong. The doctor goes missing. And a coarser is dispatched. They're very good at what they do. And you are going to have to kill one. Why do I have to kill one? Because you want to get into the institute. Remember, there your ticket in. Is that even possible? They're not invincible. So technically it's possible. Whether you are capable of it. I guess we'll find out. That sounds like suicide. It does, doesn't it? If there were another way, I'd suggest it. Believe me. Let's go. Just point me in the right direction. Well, I suppose your enthusiasm counts for something. Every coarser has special hardware that gives them a direct connection to the relay in the institute. It's embedded in its ship in their heads. You need that ship. But to get it, you'll have to find a coarser. Now I don't know exactly where you can find one. They haven't sent any after me. And sitting here waiting doesn't seem like a good plan. You are going to have to hunt one down. I can tell you where to start and give you somehow finding one. But you'll have to do the dirty work. What do I need to do? Listen up. Tell me what I need to know. All right. I don't see why you can't do this. The back in the institute is the last place I want to be. Now listen up. Okay. Let's get to work. Right. The primary insertion point for coarsers is in the ruins of CIT directly above the institute. So you all want to head there. Now, the relay causes some pretty heavy interference all across the EM spectrum. You've got to radio on that pit boy. Right? When you get to the ruins, tune it to the lower end of the band and listen in. You'll be able to hear the interference. Follow the signal. And it'll lead you to a coarser. Then you just have to not get killed, not going to lie. The odds aren't in your favor here. But if you do make it, remember what I said about the serum. I need it badly. I... I really do hope you find what you're looking for. With that, we complete the quest, the glowing sea. And start the quest, Hunter slash Funted. Travel to CIT. Exploring Virgil's lab, we find a number of goodies, but almost everything here is set to owned. There are only a few things we can loot without stealing. At the bottom of his cave is an end of dungeon steamer trunk, but everything in here is set to owned. There is some super mutant armor lying about if we had strong as a companion this might be useful, but again, we'd have to steal it. Really the only thing we can take in here without stealing is a copy of Tesla Science that we find on one of his work tables. Nice. You've collected an issue of Tesla Science. Tesla Science Magazine, Rocket Science for Toddlers. Energy weapons permanently inflict 5% critical damage. You find a Corsair, don't underestimate it. The chip's no good if you're dead. Hi. Good luck finding a Corsair chip. You're gonna need it. Nearby, we also find Virgil's terminal that we can freely access. Inside, we find five entries. In the first log entry number one, Found Old Terminal and Repair Shop needed repair. Got it working. Hard to type. Fingers too big. Still looking for materials for serum. Only hope now. In the next one, entry two, Materials Hard to Find. Glowing sea too damaged by you were did not fully all consider implications. Was only thinking of survival alone. Safety from anyone trying to follow. People in Crater may seem to help. Mentally unstable but a prayer-unthly immune to radiation. Holdren would love them, hoping they have larger keyboard. Oh God poor guy. In the next one, entry three, Children and of Adam cannot help. They are just as starved for materials, but are too proud to admit desperation. Occasionally all losing feeling in extremities. Slide, gaps in memory, Trying to remain positive. But if condition deteriorates, Need to reproduce serum soon. And in the next one, log four, Serum can't be made here. Tools un-vailable. Hounds too clumsy to perform any delicatations. Typing, get train harder. Makis me too angry. No way back in to get a regional sample of serum. Must consider that my condition may be permanent. Backing out of this, We do have access to spotlight control, But it doesn't do much for us. And so with Virgil's cave explored, We can head back out to the glowing sea. Well, we now know what we have to do to get inside the institute. And we learned something really important about the institute. When we said that we were looking for our kidnap son, Virgil didn't bat an eye. He said, yeah, that sounds like something the institute would do. He admitted that the institute has kidnapped people from the Commonwealth before. Which tells us that the people of Diamond City aren't crazy. Their fears are not unfounded. The institute really is responsible for kidnapping people. And if they're responsible for that, Logic says they're also responsible for replacing said people with identical looking synths. How can the institute excuse this behavior? What could their motive possibly be? The only way to find out is to get inside the institute. And to do that, we've got to find a coarser. Winding our way out of the glowing sea, we begin to see signs of life. Those brotherhood vertebrates are still circling in the air. And we pass by a brotherhood patrol occupying a homestead. We've arrived back at civilization, if we can call it that. And now we need to head to the ruins of the Commonwealth Institute of Technology to find a signal that will bring us to a coarser. A task we'll undertake in my next episode. I publish new Fallout videos each and every week on my channel. So if you don't want to miss that episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already, but you still find that you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxford. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. Stinkin' wolves! That's right, a long awaited design for viewers of my live streams. I tend to die whenever I'm swarmed by wolves in any game I play. And this shirt celebrates it. I've got a bunch of other designs as well that come in men's, women's, and children's sizes. And in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other items as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get a little badge that appears next to their names in the comment sections of my videos and access to ox emojis that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.