Reporter lassen In our last episode, we learned from 3Dog where our father James was headed next. If that doesn't sound familiar, it may be because I published Episode 5 of this series when we visit Galaxy News Radio a long time ago. So instead of remaking that video for this series, I figured we'd continue on with the story. If you missed Episode 5, when we go to G&R and meet 3Dog, you can watch that video by clicking here. But to briefly sum up, after following the directions we found on Moriarty's terminal, we emerged from the subway tunnels at Chevy Chase. There we found a gunfight going on between super mutants and the brotherhood of steel. Look, I don't know who you are, but you don't belong here. The super mutants have overrun our brothers at the Galaxy News Radio building, and we're headed there to back them up. You can tag along if you want, but keep your head down and try not to do anything stupid. This was Lyons Pride. Any elite squad of brotherhood of steel knights led by Sentinel Sarah Lyons, the daughter of Elder Lyons, the leader of the brotherhood of steel, here in the capital wasteland. Since we were both headed towards G&R, we accompanied each other. We found the early dawn elementary school under siege by supermutants. Incidentally, this is the same elementary school that the original children of little amplight came from. When we arrived at G&R, we had to find a super mutant Bahima. And tragically, night redding perished. It's not your fault, Vargas. Redden was good enough for the pride, and she proved it here today. Yeah, no. God damn it. Then clear we entered G&R and walked up the stairs to chat with three dog. Like Moriarty before him, three dog has information we want, but he refuses to give it to us, unless we help him first. The reason God was having so much problem listening to G&R back at Moriarty's saloon was because three dogs radio dish got damaged. You see their broadcast dish was at the top of the Washington Monument, and a supermutant took a pot shot at it, ruining it. He can't find a replacement, but a brotherhood of steel soldier mentioned that he saw something looking like a dish inside the Museum of Technology. This dish was on the Virgo 2 lunar lander, the vehicle America used to reach the moon. He said that he would tell us where our father is if we were trees and install the dish. After agreeing, we headed out the back door and opened a chain gate to Metro Junction. This dungeon crawl is one of the longest and in my opinion most satisfying in the entire game. It was crawling through the Metro tunnels of Fallout 3 that first caused me to fall in love with the Fallout series. If I were to cover every room and every corner in these Metro tunnels, well that would be a two hour video in and of itself. To get to the mall, we have to follow the brotherhood of steel graffiti that points the way. This brings us through ghoul infested hallways and raider infested tunnels. We exited to Dupont Circle. Then after escaping with our lives from Dupont Circle, we went underground to the collapsed car tunnel. After killing ghouls and exploding cars there, we followed the graffiti towards Dupont Circle Station. This station was particularly dangerous, filled with supermutants ghouls and vicious raiders. But at the very end we find a door to Metro Central. Metro Central is one of the largest and deepest metro stations in the game, spanning multiple levels. With numerous exits, it's easy to get lost here. We explored until we found Museum Station. Then we followed the graffiti until we arrived at the mall. It is heavily defended with supermutants wielding powerful weapons. But if we can't kill the mall, thankfully this station opens up right at the door to the Museum of Technology and we can race inside. Now I covered the Museum of Technology in a dedicated video a while ago that you can watch here. It's an interesting place filled with lots of wonderful world building lore. But to make a long story short, in the depths of the museum we find the Virgo II Lander. And from it we can pry the dish. With the dish in hand we left the Museum of Technology back out to the mall and then walked west until we arrived at the Washington Monument. The monument was guarded by two brotherhood of steel knights and they run off to fight supermutants. But three dogs gave us a password to the Washington Monument. We were able to take the elevator all the way to the top, install the Virgo dish into the galaxy news radio relay at the top and then activate the relay. If we do, three dogs has a unique and crystal clear broadcast. Capital wasteland, you can hear me. Yeah, you can't stop that signal baby. That's right from Megaton to Gertrache. Paradise falls to the Republic of Dave. We're coming to you loud and proud in a special live report. But three dogs, you're in that cool radio studio in DC. How do you know I can hear you all the way out here in the ass in the nowhere? Because of the kid from Vault 101, that's how that gal actually managed to repair our antenna relay. How's that for ingenuity folks? From here on in, it's bye bye stupid static. Hello magnificent music. So sit back, relax and absorb these classic tunes. When done, we headed back to GNR to get the whereabouts of our father from three dog. Hey, alright! The hero of the wasteland returns. Thanks three dog. I was just glad to help with the good fight. Hey, you're the one that deserves all the thanks. You struck a major blow against tyranny. I did what had to be done. And well done indeed. Now GNR can be heard clear across the capital wasteland again. They'll give Eden and those muties something to think about. Before I get back to my calling, I bet you want to hear about your dad. Yeah, yeah, it was the thrill of a frickin' lifetime. Smoke a peace pipe man. You know you are so unlike your father. I suppose that's what you want to know next. Please, I miss him so much. Whoa now, dry eyes. My promise is a promise and I will provide. No crap, spill it already, three dog. Whoa now, take it easy. You ask, so I will provide. Well yeah, where's my dad gone? From your dad passed through here. He and I talked for a good long time. He's a real stand up kind of guy. He mentioned some scientific mumble jumbo which didn't make sense to me. I mentioned something called project purity. He also said something about going to visit a Dr. Lee in Rivet City. But he left in a hurry. Rivet City? Where's that? You never heard of Rivet City? Wow. Just. Wow. Well, a whole bunch of people got together and turned a beached aircraft carrying into a town. Pretty cool huh? Just follow the river south from here. There's no way you can miss it. What kind of bull crap is this? That's all you know? Look, I appreciate what you did for me. And I especially appreciate what you did for the people by fixing up my station. But an attitude like that ain't winning you any brownie points. That's all I know. That's all I'm going to say about it. Just why don't you move on now? That Rivet City is where I'm headed. Goodbye. Remember to keep us tuned in while you're out there. Watch yourself. With that, he marked the location of Rivet City on our map and gave us a photograph of Dr. Lee. It's a bit dim and hard to make out on our pit boy. But I think we can recognize her. Now I did a multiple episode series on the full story of Rivet City a few months ago. That you can watch here, but the one thing I didn't cover in that series is the story of Dr. Lee. So heading to Rivet City, we crossed the bridge to get stomped by harkness. Hold it right there. State your business in Rivet City. I'm looking for Dr. Lee. Yeah? Let me guess. No, she's not expecting you. But it's really important and you need to see her right away. There's a lot of that going around lately. And I've had just about enough of it. So you're going to have to do better than that. My father came to see her. I'm trying to find him. Hmm. Older guy in his 50s or so? I remember him. He left already. But Dr. Lee might know more. All right. You can go on up. She'll be in the science lab. Just don't cause any trouble. Or else you're going to answer to me. Taking the door to the left brings us to the stairwell. Turning left, we open a door to the middle deck. We then follow the science to the science lab. But then at the home we turn right, then take the first left to open the door to the science lab. We find Dr. Lee by taking the staircase to the bottom floor. She's usually walking around in a lab coat, examining vegetables on a nearby table. Look, this is a restricted area. I'm tired of telling you people. I… It's you. My heaven's you look so much like him. Your James' daughter, aren't you? What are you doing here? Wait. You know who I am. Have we met? You were too young to remember and I suppose James never spoke of me. Typical? You know my father? Have you seen him? Well, yes. Of course I do. Don't you know who I am? I suppose James never told you. Typical? I'm Dr. Madison Lee. I worked with your father many years ago. Your mother as well, in fact. You'll have to forgive me. This has all been very stressful. What with your father suddenly showing up here after being gone for so long? You have to understand that I… We put all of that behind us. Project purity, our work, all of it. We've moved on even if your father hasn't. Where's my father? Tell me now. Calm down. Calm down. What are you doing here? James said you were still in the vault. Look, this is all terribly irrational. Your father just shows up here as if nothing happened. He walked out on us. I know he had his reasons. I know it was to protect you, but still. Project purity was our life. It was the only thing that mattered and then he just gave up. He abandoned us. And we were forced to move on. I've already told him that it's over. There's no going back. Project purity was a failure and he needs to move on. I'm trying to find my father. Have you seen him? You mean you haven't? I assumed he sent you here. For that matter, aren't you supposed to be in a vault? James said he left you there. Screw the vault. I'm not staying cooped up in there. I see. So you decided to leave one of the safest places in the wasteland, even though it was in your best interest to stay. Hm. Sounds familiar. I left the vault to look for him. Did you? I was under the impression that's exactly the opposite of what he wanted for you. This isn't about me. This is about my father. Now, where is he? Your father is no longer here and I'd appreciate it if you didn't use that tone with me. Then stop wasting my time and tell me where he is. Well I don't know where he is. The last I knew he was going back to the old lab. Now will you kindly leave? I have work to do. I'm sorry. Could you please tell me where he's gone? Your father insisted that we return to work on project purity. I tried telling him too much time has passed. There's no way it would work. Predictably, he refused to listen to me. He says he can prove it will work and head it off to the old lab. I'm sorry. I don't know what else to tell you. Where's this old lab of yours? It's in the old Jefferson Memorial Building, northwest of here. Please don't go after him. It was foolish of him to even think about going there alone. Then tell me where this lab is so I can get going. I'm going to tell you the same thing I told your father. Don't go. Whatever's left there, it isn't worth it anymore. The project was abandoned. We gave up. There's no reason to go back. I don't need a lecture. I just need to know where to go. Fine. Suit yourself. It's in the old Jefferson Memorial Building, northwest of here, along the river. Can you please tell me where my father went? The last I knew he was headed back to the lab at Project Purity in the old Jefferson Memorial Building. I still say it's dangerous and he should have risked it. That's all I know. If my father is there, I need to go after him. It's in the old Jefferson Memorial Building, northwest of here, along the river. It's not a safe place and I wouldn't recommend going alone. As I said, I told your father not to go. Can you tell me more about my parents? I suppose so. I worked with them for several years until... Until your mother died and your father decided it was time to leave. What else do you want to know? What was my father like back then? James? He was very driven, determined to change the world. Well we all were back then, I suppose. He was focused on two things, really. Making Project Purity work. And your mother. When she died, I think... I think he gave up. I know he wanted to keep you safe. But I think part of what he did was run away. But it seems that he never really was able to get over the idea. And frankly shocked that he waited all this time and wants to try again. I never knew my mother. What can you tell me about her? Yes. Your mother was... Well, she was a good woman. A very dedicated scientist. Your father loved her very much. It was a shame that she died. She had been excited to meet you. Why did my mother die? What happened? Complications from childbirth. None of us were expecting it. We weren't as prepared as we could have been. You have to understand. We were struggling with scavenged derelict equipment. We did everything we could. You weren't prepared? My mother is dead. As I said, I am sorry. I'm afraid I can't go back and change the past. Whatever. I never knew her anyway. I'm sorry. You never had the chance to know her. She was... She was a good woman. I understand. I'm sure you did everything you could. Yes. Well, I'm sorry. It wasn't enough. I'd like to know more about you. What? Well, I... I'm not sure what there is to tell. Your father and I... We worked together for a long time. I think we were really on to something. But then there were complications. The project was abandoned and your father disappeared. I returned here to Rivet City and established the lab you see before you now. Tell me about this project you worked on with my father. Project purity, we called it. What do you want to know? What was the point of it? It was simple, really. Fresh, clean water for everyone. Such a simple idea and yet so impossible to realize. The plan was to build a facility that could purify all the water in the title basin at once. No radiation, no muck, just clear water. It just turned out to be more difficult than we anticipated. Why didn't it work? We had the basic principles down. We understood most of the science behind it, but the radiation in the area is so pervasive. Small-scale tests were fine. But anytime we tried to test the process on a larger scale, it was just too much. Maybe if we'd had more time. Or better equipment. Why did you stop working on it? What happened? You happened. It wasn't just you. We had more problems than we could handle already, but your birth is what finally pushed it over the edge. Your father decided that you were more important than everything we'd been working for, and he left. He left all of us. Once he was gone, the brotherhood decided we weren't worth their time anymore. Without their protection, we had to abandon the purifier. What is this lab? What are you doing here? This is the Rivet City Science Lab. It's taken many long years to put together, but we've done well for ourselves. Our work on portable fusion power and hydroponics are coming along quite nicely, if not quite according to schedule. What kind of place is this Rivet City? Rivet City is one of the few bastions of civilization left in the land. We're working to rebuild our society to make the world livable again. I have to go now. Good luck finding your father. So James came here, and it looks like his arrival was an unwelcome surprise for Dr. Lee. Though trying to read between the lions, I almost get the impression that there was something more between them at some point, at least something on her end. Sounds like James went to the Jefferson Memorial, but before we head that way, we can inspect the one room in Rivet City that I didn't cover in my video on the topic, and that's Dr. Lee's personal quarters. To find her bedroom, we take the nearby staircase to the top level and open the door to the upper deck. Immediately on the other side of the door, instead of going up to the weatherly hotel, we see a locked door leading to Dr. Lee's bedroom. It's locked with an average lock, but if we pick it, we find sister in her bed. What? What is sister doing in her bed? And he's muttering about his ghoul hatred. He was a former slaver from Paradise Falls. I don't think this means that lions sister were having a fling. I think that's wildly out of character for Dr. Lee. I think it's just an NPC scripting quirk. Anyway, if we head to the desk near to her bed, we find three hollow tapes lying on top of it. The first is Project Purity, Journal entry one. We're back at work after a full week of delays. Brotherhood soldiers were able to repair the sentry guns, much to my relief. I know Madison isn't comfortable having them here, but there's no denying that we'd be lost without them. We are still waiting on the full analysis of the last three small-scale curification tests. Catherine hasn't been feeling well and it's slowing down our research. I don't mind, but I can tell that it's bothering some of the others. By some of the others, does he mean Madison Lee? So Dr. Lee saved these hollow tapes of James, our father, talking about Project Purity, even though she has long since abandoned Project Purity. I wonder why? And did the project just mean that much to her? Or was it James? The next one is Project Purity Journal entry three. This is the next one in order. We find some hollow tapes missing. They just weren't added to the game. Well, there's no more mystery behind Catherine's health problems. The news of her pregnancy has lifted the spirits of everyone here and given us a renewed interest in making the purifier work. We now have a future generation to provide for. The latest tests show that our methods are horribly inefficient. But I think we're on the right track. Catherine refuses to rest. She insists on spending all day in the lab. I've never seen her more driven. She's determined to resolve the power problems before the baby is born. I've tried to reason with her, but it's no use. So Project Purity meant so much to Catherine, our mother, that she continued to work herself hard, even when pregnant with us. Could that have contributed to the complications that resulted in her death? The final one we find here is Project Purity Journal entry five. The team has made plans to scale back our work once the baby is born. They're also trying to compensate for the increase in mutant attacks. No one is really talking about the implications of it. There are more of them than before. We know it. The brotherhood soldiers know it. Our relationship with the brotherhood is straining. They're concerned, but they're like if concrete results from the project, especially in light of the mutant attacks. They haven't come out and said it, but we all know what's going on. They're questioning whether they're involvement in our project is worth the trouble it's causing them. They lost two good men this week with three more injured. So Project Purity was possible because the brotherhood of steel was protecting the scientists at the Jefferson Memorial. But lack of progress was making it difficult for the brotherhood to spare their soldiers and resources. At last, we understand what we learned at Moriarty's Saloon that James arrived at Megaton with his brotherhood friend. That's right. Your father is brotherhood a steel friend. And you the suckling bay with Nariatitta suckle. It sounds like even after the failure of Project Purity, the brotherhood of steel was kind enough to make sure James and his new baby found shelter. On her desk is Dr. Lee's terminal, locked with an easy lock. If we hack it, we find two entries in the first hydropomics progress. The rivet city hydroponics have been restored to basic functionality. Easy enough, after all of our research, the limited amount of clean water we can produce is enough for growing basic foodstuffs, still no progress on any mass purification tests. And with all of the maintenance that has to be done around here, there's hardly any time to attempt new experiments. In any case, rivet city wouldn't work as a location for truly large-scale decontamination. The infrastructure just isn't here. And the idea of recreating it again is too daunting to convince the rest of the council. And that's even if the process worked. So as much as Dr. Lee tried to pretend that she had given up on project purity, the thought of continuing with the experiment, here at rivet city, had crossed her mind. She has already succeeded at purifying water on a smaller scale, which helps her produce the fresh clean crops of rivet city, but she still has ambitions for purifying water on a much larger scale. But sadly, rivet city doesn't have the infrastructure, but I wonder if the Jefferson Memorial still does. Backing out, we can read council minutes. We learned from my series on rivet city that Dr. Lee is on the council and is so important to rivet city that she might as well be the council. In attendance, science rep Dr. Madison Lee, civilian rep, ban and security rep, Lana Danvers. Trader relations good, we continue to be one of the only reliable sources of clean vegetable foodstuffs. Ban and proposed raising the price of exported fruit by 50%. Vote fails. Lee reports progress made with new tweaks to hydroponic system, further testing necessary before complete success, she says. Danvers reports necessary ship maintenance in hanger deck level, proposes increased allocation to internal maintenance to prevent decay from progressing to a dangerous point. Vote succeeds. Rumors of increased slave trader and super mutant activities in DC have prompted Danvers to renew combat training for city guards. Dr. Lee called away to handle hydroponic system shortage, meeting adjourned. Leave it to ban and to try to make an extra buck off of Lee's hard work. We see a snapshot here of how important Dr. Lee's work is to the people of rivet city. Even if she's not cleansing the water of the entire wasteland, over the past 19 years, she has made a huge impact where James has not. Because of her, people of the capital wasteland, if they can afford it, can eat clean and healthy fruits and vegetables. Instead, James chose to produce a 19 year old child. I suppose then it's up to us to make that sacrifice worth it. With that, we've learned everything we can from Dr. Lee. We now have to head to the Jefferson Memorial. But thankfully, it's right next door. Dr. Lee really didn't travel very far after abandoning project purity and moving to rivet city. Heading back to land, if we turn west and follow the shore, we pass by a number of imposing statues to see the Jefferson Memorial, but looking different than we remember from the pictures we saw in history class. It is now surrounded by big walkways, gantries, and pipes. As we get close, we get attacked by super mutants from a hill side to the right. We have to race up and clear it. We should have been there. We should have been there. I want you. Once clear, we can head back down the hill towards the Jefferson Memorial. But we find that the ramps and gantries are all being patrolled by super mutants. But not very many of them. After clearing the super mutants, we can take the western side of the ramp down to the ground, where we find a blue door to the Jefferson Memorial gift shop. On the other side, we find a mutant. Heading down the hallway, we arrive at a split. Basement gift shop rotunda to the right, and then some other unmarked pathway off to the left. We'll start by going right, sharing to care of a machine gun turret on the roof above us. Inside, we see a big sandbag barricade. There's a bathroom to the right, a door ahead of us, and a gift shop to the left. Dogmaid finds a super mutant in the gift shop. Hold up. And another attacks from the room to the south. I'll do. With the mutant's dead, we can begin to loot. We'll start at the gift shop, after looting a first aid kit on the wall we can head inside. Here we find a couple of ammo boxes and 32 caliber ammunition on a nearby shelf. Behind the counter, we find an open safe for the plunger inside, but nothing else of interest. Heading out of the gift shop, we find another ammo box, immediately to the left. Heading west, we find the bathrooms, but these are empty. So we need to head south. We see a bunch of cables snaking along the wall towards this room and pipes that really shouldn't be in a public facing gift shop. Someone has built this place up after the apocalypse. The arrow is pointing at this door, say rotunda and basement. We're blocked by a wall. We have to turn right or left, turning right. Okay, let's see what was around the other corner. We see the door to the rotunda off to the east. Okay, we'll head there in a bit, and just then another mutant attacks. Like a... It's a mask. It's the end of sight of your old blood. Nearby, we find a manhole cover leading to taft tunnels, but we can't access this yet. It's locked, and we don't have the key. Perhaps it'll become important later. Moving south, we can loot the mutant and nearby Nukokola machine. We find another door to the Jefferson Memorial rotunda to the east. Okay, two doors leading to the rotunda, but rounding the corner to the west, we find a bunch of chemistry equipment set out on tables, lots of consoles lining the wall. Rounding this big concrete column in the middle of the room, we can loot the super mutant we killed upon entering the room at a couple more containers. Turning around, the last thing we find is a door to the memorial sub-basement to the south. We'll go here first before heading to the rotunda. On the other side of the door, we go down a long winding staircase to get to the bottom of the sub-basement. Here, simply turning on our light, alerts many of the mutants down below. They race up the staircase to the east. Well, since we're here, we might as well start by exploring down this hallway. This battle took place right outside a door to some sort of medical room. There's an intercom on the wall that doesn't work, heading inside, we see an operating table, a privacy screen, and then against the Eastern wall, a table with two more holotapes. The first is Project purity journal entry seven. I am at a loss. My beloved wife is gone, and her place is my daughter, small and helpless. As much as this place means to me, as much as it meant to Catherine, this is now place for an infant, especially an infant without her mother. So dad was here. He recorded these holotapes right after mom died, and must have left them here. Dr. Lee took the only ones that meant anything to her. The ones about Project purity, she left the ones about our mother. In the next one, Project purity journal entry eight. It's time to go. The project was in trouble before, both internally and externally. Progress has come to a halt. Both because our recalculations have gotten us nowhere, and because the mutant attacks occur several times a day. I regret that it has come to this. I know that if I leave, our work may come to an end. Addison has never been on the best of terms with the brotherhood. Aside from scribe rough child, she'll tolerate none of them. If she's the one dealing with them, who knows what will happen? It breaks my heart to go. But I must put the needs of my child before my own. Sounds like Dr. Lee isn't much of a people person. But I think we already learned that after meeting her. I think becomes clear why if she really was interested in James, James didn't fall in love with her. She's not very lovable. But of course, that doesn't make her any less of a brilliant scientist. But turning around, we immediately understand the significance of finding those two hollow tapes here. We've been here before. It's the first thing we saw at the very beginning of the game. This is the very room where we were born, where we were given a name where our mother died. We even see the gene projector that father used to see exactly what we'd look like as adults. It's folded up and tucked against the ceiling. But there it is. This is where we were born. It was even Madison Lee who delivered us. It's all true. Heading out of our birthplace, we can head down the stairs to the east. We see signs on the wall. Mainframe to the right. Looks like we missed that. We'll have to go back up to find it. Also, we still have to explore that rotunda. But to the left, we find fuse, access A1, and flood control. At the bottom of this staircase, we see a bunch of bunk beds. Is this where the project purity scientists lived? If so, it was quite an intimate affair, hardly any privacy at all. Four bunk beds, eight beds total. Did Catherine and James sleep here, too? Passing through a door to the west, we arrive at a crossroads. Flood control to the left. We'll start with that. Turning left, we find a shelf with right away some ammunition and an ammo canister at the top. And then directly opposite the shelf, we find a door, leading to a bedroom. Oh, well, at least one of the scientists had a cozy place to stay. There's a four-post wooden bed here, not a rickety old bunk bed. And on a table nearby, we find a hollow tape, better days. That batch of tests was inconclusive. That Madison and I are convinced it's a problem with the secondary filtration system. We're going to recalibrate the equipment and try again tomorrow. So that, James, please, I'm trying to work. Now's not the time. So that's the next step. Assuming we get the results we need, we'll move on to James. Stop. I need to finish these notes. We'll move on to diagnosing the issues with the radiation dampeners. That should, oh, James. Now, we really shouldn't. It's a recording of Mom. This is the only time, aside from when we were first born that the lone wanderer has heard her voice. That sounds like she and James were truly in love. And it looks like James was a bit of a drinker. We find a Scotch bottle and an empty whiskey bottle right next to this hollow tape. Did he come here? Was he reminiscing? Turning around, we find a table with a broken terminal and a stack of hollow tapes. These are project purity journals, but they're different. These are personal entries. We'll start with the only entry that doesn't have a number. Well, here we are again. Project purity in me. It's been close to 20 years since my last entry. Since I left all of this behind to make a life for my daughter. We've spent that time in Vault 101, tucked away from the rest of the world. It wasn't perfect, but it was safe. And that's all I could have hoped for. Now my daughter is a grown woman, beautiful, intelligent, confident. That's like her mother. And as hard as it was to admit it, she doesn't need her daddy anymore. This is a new recording, so James was here. He came back to the Jefferson Memorial 19 years after abandoning it and came down to this room. His bedroom that he shared with Catherine to reminisce and record more personal journals. Next, we can listen to entry one. So here I am back where it all began. Project purity. God, we wanted to change the world. We really thought the waters of life could be a reality. And that's why this is a momentous occasion. Because even after 19 years, I still believe it. Project purity can and will be operational. This is just the beginning. I can't even begin to imagine the daunting task ahead of him. Coming here 19 years later, his project, Cold Abandoned, and he has to piece it together from scratch. How did he even start? We can then move on to entry number two. This is day two of my attempt to resurrect this project. I've got one of the portable fusion generators up and running. But it's just enough to power the emergency lighting in a couple of other systems. That will serve for now, but I need help powering up the mainframe. Time to visit Madison at Rivet City. Oh, so he came here first before heading to Rivet City. When he told Lee he was coming to the Jefferson Memorial, she didn't know that he was actually going back to it. Next, in entry three. I spoke with Dr. Lee Madison at Rivet City. It went about as well as I expected. That is to say, she thinks I'm completely mad. Now can I blame her? He's got her own life, her own team, and is making real tangible scientific progress. Here I come again, a very paragon of failure and false promises. But the reality is I need Madison, and whatever scientific team she may have assembled, I can't do this myself. Project purity is bigger than me. It always was. And without Catherine, God, I can't let this die. Not again, not like this. Is he doing this just for mom? Does he somehow think that if he can finally get project purity running, that Catherine won't have died in vain? Or does he perhaps think that getting at working would be redemption? Redemption for allowing his wife to die. We begin to see that our father is a very complicated man. And then we see it. On the wall, beneath the light bulb, is our mother's favorite scripture. I am the Alpha in the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. So that's why this was Catherine's favorite verse, The Waters of Life. She saw project purity as a way to give the people of the capital wasteland, unpolluted water, The Waters of Life, freely. Our mother really was dedicated to the project, passing out of our parents bedroom. We can continue right down the hallway, but this leads to a dead end. We see a switch on the wall, the flood-controlled power switch. But at the moment, it doesn't do anything, probably because as we learned from the holotapes, father only enabled the memorial's backup power. Not everything is functional. Heading back to the crossroads, we can go straight. Here we find two big vats filled with water. One of them is deep, but swimming inside we don't find anything. And the other one is shallow. Both pools are irradiated, so project purity clearly isn't working yet. This room is vaulted though. We see the room we passed in order to come down here above us. We'll have to head back up to explore that in a minute. There's a doorway to the west that leads down to fuse access A1. At the bottom we see the fuses to the right, but we can't access these yet. We must not have the right materials to turn the power back on. But turning south and going up the stairs, we find another super mutant. I love it! Here we find another table, more whiskey bottles strewn about. Were these all finished off by dead? We leave this room via a door to the east. This puts us out into a hallway with a dead end to the south. Here we find another bottle of scotch. Subturning around, we can follow the hallway all the way back to the crossroads. So we fully explored the bottom level of the basement. I get the feeling we'll be coming back here in the future, but for the moment we have to go back up the stairs. Passing the room where we were born, we can explore this top level that we walked through quickly earlier. We can do the Gore bag, a couple of minor containers. Moving west, we see another shelf filled with empty whiskey bottles. This couldn't have just been dead. I bet the scientists were big on whiskey as well. But here we find a door leading to the main frame. But this door doesn't budge. It has to be powered to open. So we'll definitely be coming back here. But with this door locked, that means there's nothing more we can do down in the sub basement. This leaves only one path left to explore. And that's to head back up to the gift shop and then take the door to the right to the rotunda. We arrive to find more mutants. I don't know. I did a mess with me. With the mutants dead, we can take the stairs up to this floating pod in the middle of the rotunda. We don't remember this from Vault-Tec history books. At the top of the stairs, we find a console, Project Purity, RTY-01, Access A1. And on top of it, we find a stack of holotapes. More of Dad's personal journals. We can continue by listening to Entry 5. Even in Vault 101, my work on Project Purity never really stopped. Soon after we arrived, my nightly routine included sneaking into the restricted areas, searching for a, I don't know, whatever I could find. It was a Vault-Tec facility after all. The place was built with some of the most advanced technology this country had ever developed. Those excursions never turned up anything particularly useful. So one night after a bottle of scotch, I broke into the Overseas office. It was easy enough to hack his console, gain access to the restricted files. Most of it was garbage. Robacamber, spy reports, just plain, rambling bullshit, really. But there was one thing, one name that stood out amongst all the others. Dr. Stanislav Brone, I knew of Brone's work, of course. He was a celebrity in this day. Vault-Tec's sorcerer scientist, leaving his peers and all of his technological wizardry. But it was in Vault 101 that night in the Overseas office. I first learned of Brone's involvement in Vault-Tec's social preservation program and his work on something called Get, the Garden of Eden Creation Kid. So he does like scotch, hey, good man. And he's been working on Project Purity this whole time, the past 19 years, even, in Vault 101. But then we recall the terminal entries. We read on his terminal back when we were 16. Experiment Pp216, Project Purity, Revelation 216. Even back then, he was working on Project Purity. That's why he stole the Vault's water chips. And it was this project, Project Purity, that Jonas was helping James with. That's why Jonas helped Father escape the Vault. He knew about Project Purity. And he was trying to help James save the world. And it cost him his life. And it looks like Dad read the same terminal entries we read on the Overseas terminal while we were escaping the Vault. In those entries, we read a letter from Dr. Stanislaus Brone, giving instructions to the Overseer and talking about the Geck, the Garden of Eden Creation Kid, describing the Geck as a terraforming module that can bring life to an irradiated wasteland. Well, there you go. No wonder Dad was intrigued by Stanislaus Brone, a module that can bring life back to an irradiated wasteland likely has the ability to purify water. That's exactly what he needs. Tragically for Dad, Vault 101 didn't come equipped with a Geck. That's because as part of Vault 101's experiment, the doors were never supposed to open. Next entry number eight. To be honest, the Geck sounded like pure fantasy, even for someone of Brone's capabilities. It was nothing short of a miracle. A terraforming module capable of producing life from a complete likenessness. But not only was this thing a reality, it was actually distributed to several Vaults to be used after an atomic war. Vault 101 was sadly not on that list. I did some digging and discovered Brone's name on the reservation list for a Vault 112. I know slouch, but this man, he could have easily succeeded where I failed. Thus his collective knowledge remained within the halls of Vault 112. Journal of all of tapes, computer records, maybe even experiments. If I could gain access to just a fraction of Brone's genius, project purity would become a reality. Wait, so Stanislaus Brone was interred in a local DC Vault? Oh, maybe Dad's got the right idea. Maybe we can find some of his records at this Vault 112. And in the final one, entry number 10. I'm off to Vault 112 to search for anything of Brone's that might help me get this purifier up and running. All I know is that it's west of someplace called Evergreen Mills. And it's well hidden in some sort of garage. But I'll find it. I have to. It's so close, but that's the story of project purity, isn't it? An eternity of almost theirs. Let's see if Brone has the missing puzzle piece. What? We have to go to another Vault? So we crawled out of the depths of Vault 101 and fought our way across the wasteland just to climb into another Vault? Oh, great. So we missed him again. Dad left the Jefferson Memorial and went to this Vault 112. Now what was it he said? It was west of a place called Evergreen Mills. Hidden inside a garage. Well, at this point in our journey as we've been to Evergreen Mills, we should be able to find it. Before we go, we can explore the Rotunda and man. Dad and Madison Lee really put a lot of work into the infrastructure of this place. No wonder Dr. Lee said that it would be extremely intimidating to build again at Rivet City. We see pipes crisscrossing this way in that and a huge tank. Oh, wait a minute. Was someone there? Is that the figure of someone? Finding an unoccupied window sure enough there's someone in there. But if we press our face to the glass, oh, it's the statue of Thomas Jefferson. Dad and Dr. Lee turned the Rotunda of the Jefferson Memorial into a giant water purification tank and they didn't even remove Thomas Jefferson. Well, if we can help our dad with this project, then perhaps one day we'll be able to see this Founding Father clearly. Nearby we find a console. There are some numbers on it. On a hunch I tried punching in the Bible passage, but this terminal was not powered. So it didn't work. There's nothing else in the Rotunda, so we have to leave. We can go out either of the two doors which both lead to the gift shop. And there was one hallway and we didn't get a chance to explore. And that was the one that went straight upon first entering. Heading that way we see a big steaming grate in the middle of the floor. This is a great to pump control. Entering it we find ourselves in a huge tube. But it's powered, lined with electricity and lit with light bulbs. At the end we find a great to the Capitol Wasteland. Here we see that the pipe has rusted away. We can peer out the top to see the stars of the night sky. But there's a big fence in the way we can't leave. At the end we see a big glowing red light and a grate to a sift pump, but this requires a key and we don't have access now. This again will likely become important later on. So we have to track down Dad who traveled to Vault 112 in search of Dr. Streneslow Sprone's research and we only have Dad's vague directions to go by. Somewhere west of Evergreen Mills. We'll head that way and pick up the story in my next episode. I publish many Fallout videos each and every week on my channel so if you don't want to miss it be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you feel like you're still not getting notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxford. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wider ray of colors. You can find them on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.