Nice to see you again! You can call me Yes, ma'am! Okay! Get! Mind off! Play me! People are new Vegas! People are new Vegas! People are new Vegas! Sorry if that was getting boring. In our last episode, we completely wrapped up everything in the majave to further a victory for an independent new Vegas at the looming second battle of Hoover Dam. This culminated in pleading with the followers of the apocalypse for their support after the battle. We had to convince them to stick around at the old Mormon fort to tend to the wounded in dying, who will likely stream into the fort after the battle. We only get her to say yes if we're already idolized with the followers of the apocalypse, but assuming that we do, we can return to the penthouse at the Lucky 38 to tell Yes, ma'am, that we've succeeded in this optional objective. Are you ready to head for the dam? Caesar's Legion is due to attack at any moment! I made arrangements with the followers, and now I'm ready to fight at the dam. Great! So I've been looking over Mr. House's forest projections and running some calculations. Yes, ma'am says something different here, depending on our choices in the game. If we destroyed House's secure-tron army, hiding within the secure-tron vault beneath the fort, yes, ma'am, says... It turns out there's only one way for us to win this battle and make it stick. We have to render Hoover Dam inoperable! He has the same reactions to both of the tonp responses, so we'll say, but yes, ma'am, the dam is too valuable to destroy. That's exactly why this will work! Just hear me out! You remember how the secure-tron army at the fort got destroyed? For very, very good reasons, of course. Well, the problem is that's left this with enough secure-trons to drive off a wicked NCR forest, but not enough to keep them from coming back. So what we do is, take away the whole reason why they want to come back! Smart, huh? He again has the same responses to both of these options, so we'll say, so wait a minute, you want me to destroy Hoover Dam? What do I do? Not the whole thing, thank goodness. That'd be really hard. All you have to do is destroy the power generators. Without the generators, Hoover Dam's just a big bunch of concrete. Take this override module. It's just like the one you used at the Eldorado substation. Install the override module on the terminal and the power control room. I'll disable the generator fail-saves and you can do the rest. Good luck! See you at the dam! Or, if instead of destroying the secure-tron vault, we awaken the slumbering army, yes, man, says... It turns out there are two ways we can win this thing! Dear that, we have options! You could route the dam's power output to the facility under fortification hill. That will restart its reactor, just like you did with the Lucky 38. That'll wake up the secure-tron army you left on standby and give us enough force to push the Legion and the NCRs straight out of the Mahavi. The other option is, destroy the dam's generators. Without those, it's just a big bunch of concrete. The NCR won't have any reason to stick around. You don't have to decide yet. For now, all you have to do is take this override module and install it on the terminal in the power control room. Good luck! See you at the dam! With a couple of options before us, we now have to commit to the battle. You are committing to fight for an independent Vegas at the battle for Hoover Dam which will determine the fate of new Vegas for decades to come. If there's anything you want to do before you enter the battle, do it now. Before you cross the point of no return. When we're ready, we can say, let's do this. With that, we arrive at Hoover Dam and begin the quest, no gods, no masters. We always arrive at 2pm. And if we take our time by going through this part of the quest, it's dark by the time we reach the Legat's camp. There are a few things that I'd like to show off during the day so the time of day is going to change pretty frequently throughout the rest of this footage. Also, there's one thing that I never showed off during the other three endings. When we arrive during the second battle for Hoover Dam, we find a new radio broadcast. Our pit boy picks up a new radio frequency, the NCR emergency radio signal. I'll go ahead and play what we pick up on this signal while we fight across the top of Hoover Dam. I'm asking if they troll me. Am I broadcasting the overrides? I'm broadcasting? Shit. This is the NCR emergency channel. It sounds like the Hoover Dam is under attack. Stay tuned. There is some sort of obstruction on the road to Hoover Dam. We're going to do our best to send reinforcements around. Unit 15, reinforce unit 16 at Defense Point, Sigma Delta. Delta Squad, redeploy. Unit 4, reinforce unit 8. All unit commands relay your current position and status. Unit 23, await reinforcement from Unit 42. They're coming out of the walls, man. They're coming out of the Dam walls. Location Bravo, Bravo Charlie. The doctor is coming. Sniper's in position, repeat. Sniper's in position. Deploying the Italian 14 to the southwestern flank. All units, be aware we are receiving help from a non-NCR military asset. And from there, it repeats. Now, of course, if we convinced the cons to fight with the NCR, they won't be hostile here. And of course, it's possible for the boomers and the remnants to appear to support us, depending on our choices in the game. I've already covered all of these options, so I'm going to skip it now. Instead, we'll fight our way through and discover what has changed if we choose an independent Vegas. One of the things that changes is the visitor center is completely boarded up inside. If we head inside to take a shortcut to the offices below, we see that the elevator and all of the doors are boarded up with furniture, so we do have to go across the top of Hoover Dam. One of the first things the Legion did is they destroyed one of the howitzers that the NCR had on this side of the dam. Like with the NCR and house endings, the Legion swarms us from the intake towers. And so we have to fight through way of after way of them. There are two towers on the NCR side of the dam. The first is the tower from which the Legionary assassin tried to assassinate the NCR president. We can enter here, but there's nothing here to further the quest. Instead, we need to bypass the first intake tower and kill the guards at the Hoover Dam checkpoint. We can't enter the checkpoint like we can with both the NCR and the Legion ending. Instead, once the guards are dead, we have to enter the second tower. This second tower has a functional elevator, which we can use to reach the Hoover Dam offices below. Once in the offices, this plays out almost exactly as it does during the house ending. We turn left, go down a hallway, turn left again, until we find the corpses of Legionaries on the floor before two power armor wearing NCR. It's up right there. No one is allowed into the control room. You shouldn't be here. It's best if you just move along. We could always start combat with these guys, which will ruin our NCR reputation, which we kind of need right now to get through this. Or we can say it's okay, I'm a friend. Friend or not, no one is allowed in here. Move along. But it's important that I get in there. It's probably more important than you get out of here alive. You have a notice there's a battle going on here. Get out of here. Or we can pass a 75-speech check to lie and say Colonel Moor is in trouble. She needs your help now. Damn it all the hell, let's go! With the guards gone, we can open the big double door to enter the control room. And at the end of the room, we find a large monitor bank. This is the control box, and it's here where we install the override ship. But the conversation that goes on here is different depending on the choices we made. If we destroyed House of Securitron Army... This is neat. From this console, I could have routed the dam's power input over to the fort and activated that dormant army of Securitrons. So, go ahead and blow up the dam's generators. And when that's done, head back upside and finish off the Legion and the NCR. But if instead we awoke the Securitron Army... Hi! Nice to see you again! So... we can blow up the dam's generators... Or, I could rout the dam's entire power output to the fort. That'll activate a certain army of Securitrons and set them loose to ravage the Legion. What do you say? Now, even though we fully upgraded the Securitron Army beneath the fort, and all we have to do now is power them up, we still find an option to destroy the dam. I want this dam out of operation. Right! Who wants a vast army of mechanical servants to savage your enemy? Why make it easy? I'm setting the generators to blow just like you asked. Hit the manual switch, then go topside and deal with the Legion and NCR. If we choose this option, or if it's the only one available to us, when we leave the control room, we have to turn right. As we pass by monitors lining the walls, we see the face of yes man appear. And, eventually, we reach the door to Hoover Dam power plant number one. On the other side of the door, we find a switch against the Eastern wall, called the West Power Plant Control Box. This box controls the power to the west side of the power plant. We can leave the control box alone, or overload it, and blow it up. Here's just in time for your task. With that, we make the NCR very angry. And even though I had idolized reputation with the NCR by the time I started working with yes man, after destroying the generators when I headed back towards the offices. I found a squadron of NCR inflinux two flamethrower wielding heavy troopers who immediately attacked. And then, we can use the power to get the power to the fort. And then, we can use the power to get the power to the fort. And then, we can use the power to get the power to the fort. Alternatively, instead of destroying the generators, we can choose to send power to the fort. Yes, this is going to be fun. I'm unlocking the East Power Plant. Hit the manual switch, then go top side and deal with the Legion and NCR. This is the option we had to choose if siding with house. To continue, when we leave the control room, we turn left. After killing a few legionaries who come up from the tunnels below, we follow the hallways until they turn south. Here we can open a door, or we find another generator. This time, however, we turned west to flip the East Power Electrical Switch. This switch controls the power to the east side of the power plant. We can leave it alone, or turn on the switch. Choosing this option does not make the NCR turn for their hostel. They likely don't even know what just happened. Where if they do, where this power is going? Once done, we can return to the top of Hoover Dam by exiting out the eastern part of the plant. This brings us to a tower on the other side of the checkpoint. When we arrive back on the top of the dam, if we chose to destroy the generators, then we don't see anything out of the ordinary at the top of Fortification Hill. Instead, the few secure trunks we have begin to attack the Legion. However, if instead we diverted power to the fort and awoke house the secure-tron army, we find the fort in flames. This is the secure-tron army invades whatever is left of the fort, destroying everything there. But remember, there is still the camp of Legionaries at the base of Fortification Hill, and the legate himself awaits us at the Legate's camp. We still have much to do. Facing east, we can kill more Legionaries who come out of yet another intake tower. Continue southeast where we see our secure crunes fighting with even more Legionaries, and possibly the NCR depending on the choices we made. On the opposite side, we can cross a scrap bridge to follow the road east towards the Legate's camp. We get rushed by a few more centurions before we can open the gate to the camp. This encounter plays out exactly as it did with the house and NCR endings. We find our way through the camp until we cross to Hill and are stopped in our tracks by Legate Lennyus himself. And on for your Vegas, yet to carry yourself a battle. Despite fighting for an independent Vegas, all of the dialogue options we have here with Legate Lennyus revolve around the NCR. We either have to fight him or convince him that the NCR is too powerful to defeat here. We strangely don't find any option to talk about what the courier has done or the courier's new robot army. After dispatching Legate Lennyus, we begin to leave the camp when... General Oliver arrives. He does have new dialogue options, better tailored towards an independent ending. However, strangely, most of the options we have to respond to him garners the same reaction. So to continue, I'll simply choose one to move forward. Caesar on the cross. Been a long time since I've seen the kind of work you've laid down today. A damn long time. And the screens of those Legion bastards as they kicked dirt running east like acquire of angels to my ears. Speaking of, that crazy light show over the fort? What the fuck was that? Some kind of thumb of god you called down? Amazing. Fucking amazing. Could use a hundred of you. Just scatter you over the east like Jacks. Give those plumb fucks the what for. Strangely enough, he mentions the light show over the fort even if we chose to destroy the generators. If that is our choice, he doesn't even mention it here. Hold that thought, General. I wanted to introduce you to some friends. And, um, well, these, uh, these boys with you? Hello there, smiley. The Securitron Army that had just finished ravaging the fort arrives at the gate to the Legitz camp along with Yes-Man. Guess it ain't no secret how you, uh, I say, can you ask them to put their weapons down? It's just reaching in my coat to give you a cigar. Now at any time during this conversation, we can simply say Securitron's a race NCR from this area? Figured as much. Come on, you sons of bitches, we're ready. We can also go to the NCR into violence with a couple of other dialogue options, which will go over in a minute. Alternatively, we'll say, the damn is one for me. You and the Legion have both lost this day. I would soon as spit on the grave of my dead mother then let some courier walk the wasteland fuck talk to me like that. Who the hell do you think you are? Looking to cash your chips to the sound of NCR bullets, huh? I can oblige. I don't want any more violence. There's been enough today. Look, I know you're riding high right now, but let me tell you, you ain't pissing on me right now. You're pissing on the bear. You've been far enough west I'm guessing to know how far that claw stretches. Fuck with the bear, and... I am make the loss here now, and my law is simple. No NCR on the Colorado. You want me to make tracks out of here? Head back west? Tail between our legs? No. I came for a fight today. And if you're looking to make me budge, you better have a damn good left hook or I'm not going anywhere. At this point we can give him an ultimatum to go them into violence. Look, either you're going to leave or you're going to fight. So decide. I think you're cast out enough to know my chances are pretty good. And like I said, I'm not leaving the damn now the Legion's been broken. It is possible to die here, as we'll see in a minute, but if we can last long enough, the Sakura Front's wipe-up the NCR. Or instead we can say, you think these robots are all the forces I have? Right now, that's all that standing there. Well, except for the corpses. So that's your plan. Hold the damn here all by your lonesome. This unlocks a new speech option. We have two here, both of which are 100 speech checks. We can say, I just stood down Caesar's toughest general. You think I won't? No. No, you're here in the Legits camp first. I think that says enough. Or we can pass another 100 speech check to bluff and say, you came here for a damn good fight. What? Because you're talking right now and not attacking? Yeah, but I wasn't expecting a fight when I came up here. And now that we're talking, I don't like the sound of things. Do you know what you're doing? Making a nation like you think you're doing ain't like challenge down on a pile of fancy-lad snack cakes. Think you got the guts to carve out a frontier, build towns, protect the roads, run supplies, train troops? I guarantee I've put more thought into the state of the Mave than you or anyone in NCR. Hell, can't believe we got suckered by some road jockey. Should've watched the flank while Caesar's best was making all that noise. I know what those robots of yours can do on a bad day. And I'm not eager to toss lies at them just to make a point. But if you're taking this place, you better hope you can hold it. I'll give my superiors my opinion, but I don't think they're going to listen. So if NCR comes at you, and it will, pray you're ready. I promise you, our situation's reversed. I'd see you hang. Now here, we have a few options that do garner different responses. We can respond to his threat by saying, I see. Yes, man, please throw a general Oliver from the dam. What the hell? No, get away from you goddamn TV-owned wheels. That was nice, but you know what? I want more. Let's see what that looked like from some other angles. Lovely. And at that point, yes, man arrives to bid us farewell. But if we don't want to murder Oliver, we can instead go to him into attacking again by saying insults, Tisk, Tisk. Secure Atrons, please erase all trace of NCR from the area. Figured as much. Come on, you sons of bitches, we're ready. In which case, we get the same battle. But as I said earlier, it is possible to die here. But the only option we have to move forward without killing Oliver or having the NCR attack is to say, nice threat Oliver is that all, because I've got work to do, and NCR words don't mean much around here. Fine. Come on, man, we're moving out. And what that, the NCR, put away their weapons and retreat. You did a super job wrapping things up, and I'm not just saying that because I have to. I didn't want to make a big deal about this until after we won, but... Well, I found some coach snippets on one of Mr. House's data banks that will let me... ...re-program my personality to be a little more assertive, basically. So that's what I'm going to be doing, and it's going to take me a while so it'll seem like I'm offline. But don't worry, everything will be okay. I've updated the Secure Atrons targeting parameters, so they know what to do. Vegas will be protected, so that's where I'll be, off making a few changes. And I... I guess I'll see you around. We accomplished a lot together. It was fun. Take care. And what that the game ends, we'll now go through all of the Yes Man game endings. And so the carrier who had cheated death in the cemetery outside Good Springs cheated death once again, and the Mojave waste land was forever changed. If we sided with Yes Man without upgrading House's Secure Atron Army... The carrier with the aid of Yes Man drove both the Legion and the NCR from Hoover Dam, securing new Vegas's independence from both factions. With Mr. House out of the picture, the remaining Secure Atrons on the strip were hard pressed to keep order. Anarchy ruled the streets. When the fires died, New Vegas remained, assuming its position as an independent power in the Mojave. But if we did activate his army beneath the fort... The carrier with the aid of Yes Man drove both the Legion and the NCR from Hoover Dam, securing New Vegas's independence from both factions. With Mr. House out of the picture, part of the Secure Atron Army was diverted to the strip to keep order. Any chaos on the streets was ended. Quickly. Chaos became uncertainty, then acceptance with minimal loss of life. New Vegas assumed its position as an independent power in the Mojave. If we sided with Yes Man and had bad karma... Supporting all the chaos that comes with independence, the carrier was the man responsible for a truly free New Vegas. He ensured the fall of Mr. House and the end of the Legion's and NCR's influence over New Vegas. If we sided with Yes Man but had neutral karma... Preferring neither the best of the NCR nor the worst of the Legion, the carrier was the man responsible for a truly independent New Vegas. He had removed Mr. House from power over the strip and broken the influence of the NCR and Caesar's Legion in the Mojave wasteland. And if we sided with Yes Man but had good karma... Supporting the ideals of independence, the carrier was recognized as the woman responsible for a truly free New Vegas. She ensured that Mr. House's tyranny was broken and that neither Caesar's Legion nor NCR would ever gain control over New Vegas. If we chose to kill Pearl and loyal the leaders of the boomers... Without organized leadership, they're mating boomers slowly drifted away, leaving Nellis Air Force base to be flooded by prospectors and scavengers. All of the boomers accumulated knowledge quickly scattered and their existence slowly faded from memory. If we chose to ignore the boomers and we never finished their quest of Valare... With little law left in the wasteland, the boomers continued to defend themselves against the prospectors and scavengers invading their territory. But if we completed their quest and we convinced them to help us at the second battle for Hoover Dam... Though the wasteland became anarchic after Hoover Dam, the boomers' display of power dissuaded fortune seekers from attempting to penetrate Nellis. If we destroyed the Brotherhoods hidden valley bunker... ...and beneath tons of rubble... ...the Mojave chapter of the Brotherhood of Steel was no more. Those few who were outside the hidden valley bunker when it was destroyed... ...settled into new lives... ...or headed west to find a new chapter to join. Or if we completed the Brotherhoods quests by putting Paladin Harden in charge of the Brotherhood... ...and we then sided with Yes, man... The Brotherhood used the Battle of Hoover Dam as an opportunity to retake Helios I... ...and came to control the area between it and hidden valley. With no organized opposition, their patrols began monitoring trade along I-15 and 95... ...seizing any items of technology they deemed inappropriate. Or if we completed the Brotherhoods quests by leaving Elder McNamara in charge of the Brotherhood... ...and if we convinced them to support the NCR during the second Battle of Hoover Dam... ...and then chose to side with Yes, man... Due to their temporary truce... ...the Brotherhood allowed the NCR to retreat from the Mojave wasteland without incident. In the relative peace that followed... ...Brotherhood patrols appeared along major roads... ...arrassing travelers over any bits of technology they had. If we completed Veronica's personal quest by convincing her to stay with the Brotherhood at Hidden Valley... ...but we never finished the Brotherhoods quests and then we sided with Yes, man... Veronica put her moral sensibilities aside... ...and supported the Brotherhood's new campaign of aggression as best she could. Yet, deep down... ...she understood that it meant their end would surely be soon to follow. Or if we convinced Veronica to abandon the Brotherhood and join the followers of the Apocalypse... ...and then we sided with Yes, man... The Brotherhoods opened aggression along the New Vegas Highways troubled Veronica greatly. Nevertheless, it removed all doubt from her mind that in leaving them she had made the right choice. Eventually, she would take to the road... ...less in hopes of finding a new home than of leaving memories of the old one behind her. If we never killed any of the Fiends' leadership and then sided with Yes, man... ...Fiends overran Cam McCarron during the Second Battle of Hoover Dam. In the anarchic months that followed... ...the Fiends asserted dominance over outer Vegas. If we killed some Fiend leaders and then sided with Yes, man... ...the Fiends attacked Cam McCarron during the Second Battle of Hoover Dam... ...and, despite suffering heavy losses overran it... ...they continued to be a nuisance throughout outer Vegas... ...but never established full control over the area. If we killed all of the Fiend leaders... ...the Fiends scattered throughout the wasteland. Without the organization of Motor Runner Cook Cook Violet and Driver Nephi... ...they were easy prey. If for some reason Julie Farkis ended up dying... ...with no clear leader to guide efforts in free side... ...the followers of the apocalypse lost control of Old Mormon Fort... ...to local thugs and junkies. Eventually, using the followers remaining supplies to manufacture drugs... ...the Old Mormon Fort quickly devolved into little more than a junky den. But if instead she's alive and we chose to side with Yes, man... ...the followers get the following ending... ...whether or not we did the optional quest... ...to convince the followers to stay behind... ...and by promising them support from House of Securitron Army. After the courier ensured New Vegas remained free... ...the followers found that independent Vegas was even more unstable and violent than before. Old Mormon Fort became excessively burdened by the influx of patients... ...struggling to provide even the most basic of services. I covered arcade Ganon's Yes, man endings in my video on him... ...so skipping straight to Goodsprings... ...if we killed everyone at Goodsprings... ...or sided with the powder gangers there. Travelers continued to stop by Goodsprings' source for water on the long 15... ...but rarely would anyone venture into the ruins of Goodsprings itself. Those who did were almost always tourists... ...come to visit the graveyard where the courier rose from the dead. But if instead we completed their quest Ghost Town Gunfight in favor of Goodsprings... ...and then sided with Yes, man. With New Vegas's independence formally declared, Goodsprings thrived. More travelers stopped by Goodsprings on their way to and from the strip... ...and the locals grew prosperous from the traffic. Cast live to see the courier bring down three armies... ...and by her count, that was three more than she'd expected. She kept quiet about that though. If we choose to kill Papacan and Regis... ...after generations of being beaten down... ...the Great Cons were finally broken by the courier. Those few who avoided the courier's wrath moved north... ...into the wilderness of Idaho... ...where they tried once mortuary build. Or if we convinced Papacan to break his allegiance with Caesar... ...and then to leave the Mahave forever. During the Battle of Hoover Dam... ...the Great Cons quickly evacuated Red Rock Canyon... ...and headed north and east into the plains of Wyoming. There, they reconnected with the followers of the Apocalypse... ...and rebuilt their strength. Bolstered by ancient knowledge of governance, economics and transportation... ...they carved a mighty empire out of the ruins of the northwest. But if we convinced him... ...to recklessly have one final stand at the second battle for Hoover Dam... ...and we sided with yes, man. After their suicidal last stand at Hoover Dam... ...the Great Cons ceased to exist as a tribe. A few surviving members dispersed... ...joining up with other tribes and gangs across the Mahave... ...and quickly forgot their heritage. If, when doing the quests for the kings... ...we eased tensions between the NCR and the kings... ...and we managed to complete that quest diplomatically... ...but then we decided to side with yes, man anyway... Follow in the second battle of Hoover Dam... ...free side came to be known as one of the more stable areas in the region. Ironically, NCR refugees found free sides safer than most of the rest of New Vegas... ...where resentment still lingers. Or if during the king's quests... ...we helped pace or incite full-scale war between the NCR and the kings... ...and then we completed the game for yes, man. In the aftermath of the second battle of Hoover Dam... ...the kings took the opportunity to viciously force all NCR citizens out of free side. Travelers from the Republic quickly learned to avoid free side... ...if they value their safety. Or if we never completed the king's quests... ...or we did by convincing them to ease tensions with the NCR... ...but then we never completed kings gambit for the NCR... ...and then sided with yes, man. The kings retained their control of free side... ...and while they continued to favor the needs of locals... ...they tolerated the citizens of the defeated NCR. I covered the misfits yes, man ending in my video on the misfits... ...and no Vax ending here is the same as it's ending from some of the previous episodes. So moving on to Boon... ...if we completed his personal quest by convincing him to embrace his vengeance... ...and then we chose to side with yes, man. No longer held in check by his conscience. Boon found lucrative work as a mercenary in assassin. No job was too violent, no target too innocent. As long as the caps were good, Boon would take the job. But if we completed his quest by convincing him to make peace with what happened at bitter springs... ...and then sided with yes, man. Though NCRs withdrawing from the region... ...boon remained in New Vegas, finding work as a security guard and caravan scout along the highways. While he might have preferred rejoining his old unit... ...boon couldn't bring himself to a band in a city where he'd met his wife. If we never killed Eddie, the leader of the powder gangers at the NCR CF... ...and then sided with yes, man. The NCR, battered by the loss of the dam... ...were unable to devote any troops to retaking the correctional facility from the powder gangers. As a result, powder ganger raids on caravans became an unfortunate fact of life in the Mojave for years to come. But if we did kill Eddie, no matter which faction we sided with... After Hoover Dam, the leaderless powder gangers at the correctional facility vanished into the waste... ...leaving the prison empty. The correctional facility became another abandoned ruin in the wasteland. Its carcass occasionally picked over by enterprising prospectors. If we convinced the NCR to support Prem... ...taking over the role of law enforcement in Prem... ...but then we sided with yes, man, driving the NCR out of the region. Despite NCRs pledged to support Prem... ...they abandoned the town after their loss to the courier. Independent again, Prem operates much as it had before the powder gangs arrived... ...full of ups and downs. If we chose not to expose Chief Hanlon and then sided with yes, man... Despite distinguishing themselves during the Second Battle of Hoover Dam... ...the Rangers' victory was short lived due to the couriers and her parents. Chief Hanlon personally directed the evacuation of the Rangers to Mojave outpost... ...as they fell back into NCR territory. Bitter over the waste of life in the Mojave, Hanlon stepped down from his post. After a campaign in which he denounced Oliver's and Kimball's hawkish imperialist ways... ...Hanlon was elected as the Senator of Reading. If we chose to expose Hanlon, they're by leading to his suicide... ...and then we sided with yes, man. Although they performed admirably during NCR's defense of Hoover Dam... ...the Rangers fell into decline soon after. With Hanlon's plot against the occupation exposed... ...and Oliver denounced for losing Hoover Dam... ...many Rangers were greeted coly on their return home. Few openly blamed the Rangers for Hanlon's treachery... ...but public and political support for the military as a whole quickly dwindled. But if we convinced Hanlon to stop falsifying records... ...sabotaging the NCR's efforts in the Mojave... ...and then chose to side with yes, man. Due to the couriers intervention, Chief Hanlon abandoned his plan to sabotage the defense of Hoover Dam. The Rangers assisted the troopers admirably during the Legion's ill-fated attack. Though the courier snatched victory from NCR... ...only General Oliver was blamed for the loss of Hoover Dam. Hanlon, exhausted from a lifetime of service to the NCR... ...stepped down from its position in the Rangers and retired to his ranch from Reading. And so the couriers rode came to an end for now. In the new world of the Mojave wasteland, fighting continued, blood was spilled... ...and many lived and died just as they had in the old world. Because war... ...war never changes. And with that, we complete Fallout New Vegas... ...having sided with every faction, completed every quest, having discovered every location. In the coming days, I'll release a video on whether or not I think it's wise to side with yes, man. And a bit later I'll release another video explaining which faction I ultimately chose to side with and why. I may also release a video later showing my characters and game slides... ...with an explanation as to why I chose each one. But for now, I'd like to know what your thoughts are. Did you side with yes, man, in your game? Were you pleased, disappointed, or surprised? Were the endings we got by siding with yes, man? Let me know your thoughts in the comments section below. I publish many videos each and every week here on my channel. So if you don't want to miss my next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs you can't find anywhere else. My designs come in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find my designs on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming one of my patrons on Patreon or on member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos. You You