In our last episode, we passed a challenge inside the Temple of Trials to become the chosen one of our tribe. Our tribe, Aroyo, is slowly dying. The elder of our town heard that before the war, Vault Tech invented a nearly magical device called the Garden of Eden Creation Kit, or Pek. A terraforming device that could revitalize our tribal town of Aroyo. Our ancestor, the Vault Rweller, founded the town of Aroyo, and legend has it that he came from one of these Vault Tech Vaults, a vault called Vault 13. The elder doesn't know the location of Vault 13, but one day a traveling tradesman named Vic came to town, and he handed her a strange metal flask emblazoned with the number 13. It stands to reason that this traitor Vic knows the location of Vault 13, Vault 13, which is our best chance of finding a gack. The traitor Vic was last seen at the nearby town of Klamath, and so we, the chosen one, head off into the wasteland to reach this Klamath in search of the traitor Vic. Klamath is not far away, we'll likely only stumble upon one random encounter along the way. If any, despite coming from the west, we arrive on the eastern end of town. Upon entry we find a sandwitch board filled with all sorts of useful information. We see some ads, job notices, and even a drawing, but it looks as if everything on this sandwitch board has been here for quite some time. Inspecting the drawing, we see that it appears to be the picture of a Brahman with a big X drawn through it, and the word Tor, T-O-R-R, scrolled beneath it. We see a job listing from a guy named Whiskey Bob, he says that he needs help refueling his still, and if we'd like to help him, we can find him at Ma Buckner's place. There's an advertisement for a nearby bathhouse, which features the handywork of the beautiful and talented Jenny. See, big-nosed Sal at the bathhouse for more exciting details, oh dear. Sounds like it's one of those bathhouses. We find an advertisement from someone wanting to buy lizard hides, their pay-and-top dollar for Gecko Peltz, even more for Golden Gecko Peltz. If we have any to sell, we need to talk to Sejagg, the owner and operator of the Golden Gecko Tavern. We then find a notice about rats. There are too many rats in Trapper Town. Come on and get them all you can eat. Slim. Oh man. Are the people of Klamath really resorting to eating rats? Then we find an advertisement, Genuine Antiques. Okay, did they spell Genuine Antiques Genuine Antiques? They don't make them like they used to. USDA. Used to. In fact, they mostly don't make these things at all. If you want good old stuff, see Vic the Traitor, eastside of downtown. There he is. Vic the Traitor, the guy we came looking for. He needs a spelling lesson, but I'm sure he'll be able to tell us where Vault 13 is. And finally, we see a Missing Persons report. It appears that a Trapper named Smiley has gone missing. The advertisement describes him as about six feet tall, clean and housebroken. Mostly, he disappeared up north and I couldn't miss him. Arden Buckner. Okay, well at least Arden cared enough about the guy to post this notice. So we have a lot to do. We'll start by talking with this guy standing by the Brahman pen. We learned that his name is Aldo when he's the town greeter. He's happy to give us answers, but he requires a tip. He looks a bit drunk. We can say here's a tip. Stay off the booze. In which case he ignores us. Well, we can give him five bucks to open up. When we ask him that we're looking for a traitor named Vic, he says that he hasn't seen Vic in a while. And that he's likely run off somewhere. Oh great. That means we're not going to find him here in Klamath. He then says that we may want to go and talk with Jenny over at the bathhouse. She and Vic were pretty thick. Ha ha ha. Get it? Oh my. I haven't lost my touch. He's very proud of that rhyme. Ah, that's just great. Still, we should probably stop by Vixantique shop to see if we can find any clues. Heading north of here, we see the Buckner house. But before we can go any further, a tribal walks out into the courtyard. We learn that this is Tor. He must be the author of that thoughtful Brahman graffiti that we saw on the sandwich board. When we ask him if anything has been going on recently, he says, Bugman take mums at night. Tor scared. Help Tor? However, this conversation goes much differently if our character has low intelligence. With the low intelligence pathway, the chosen one can have an intelligent conversation with Tor. From him, we can learn exactly where Vic went. But not if we have normal intelligence. Alright, so some sort of bug creatures are attacking his Brahman at night. If we agree to help, he points off to the east and says that the mums are grazing in the mumu field. If we agree to help, the screen fades to black, and we arrive at the field. Tor comes with us. Surveying the area, we don't see any big bug men attacking these Brahman. Though looking off to the southeast, we do find a small pack of scorpions. Could this be what Tor was talking about? As we get closer, they do attack us, but they're not that dangerous. We thought scorpions like these in the temple of trials. Really, the only thing to fear is getting poisoned by these guys. But we should still have some antidote left over from the temple of trials. If we kill all the scorpions, that's it. We can go back to Tor and tell him of our success. He says, Tor like oxhorn. Tor think. Bugman bad. Not let bug men eat mumu's. For guarding the Brahman, we earn 240 experience and plus 50 karma. But that is only one way to complete this quest. If we look off to the left, we see two men hiding in the trees. These are the Dunton brothers, Chuck and Buck. But they look so similar that it's hard to tell them apart. Together, they run a meat jerky business. And therefore, Tor's Brahman are of particular interest to them. What the heck are you doing here, they say? They have a job for us if we're interested. The Dunton brothers ask us to rustle the Brahman. They describe them as, quote, liberating some of the Brahman from that idiot Tor. We can complete this task any way we want. We can talk him out of the Brahman or knock him out. But they do ask us not to hurt him too bad. They don't want us to stir up a ruckus in town. If after agreeing, we lose our nerve and try to tell them that we don't want any part in this plan, they call us yellow and a coward and tell us to get back there and get rid of the idiot Tor. So heading on over to Tor, we can tell him a lie. We can say that we saw some bug men just on the other side of a nearby rock. As a friend, we can say, I'll watch the mumu's for you while you go run for help. Tor buys the story hook line and sinker. He runs off, leaving us alone with the Brahman. When he's gone, we can head back to the Dunton brothers. We're still hiding nearby. If we demand our cut of the rustle, they give us 50 bucks and five pieces of jerky. Dunton's dry meat. To leave we can head south, but on our way out, we pass by a small shack to the east. Heading inside, we find a shelf with some more jerky inside. And then on the ground, we find two scorpion limbs. At last, we realize what's been really going on here. The Dunton brothers had been putting on the scorpion limbs at night, dressing up like half-man, half scorpions or bug men. Just as Tor said, so Tor's not as thick as we thought. He really did see bug men or what he thought were bug men. Their goal, of course, was to scare Tor to keep him away from the Brahman herds so that they could rustle him. Back at town, we can head up into the Buckner house. The man in the green shirt sitting at the table is Whisky Bob. He's the guy that was asking for help on the sandwich board. But despite needing our help, he refuses to talk with us unless we buy him a drink. I guess that's how we got his name Whisky Bob. He says that he has a side business that's in trouble. So he's got this moonshine still outside town, and it needs to be constantly refueled, or else he can't make his moonshine. But a gecko recently bit his leg and he's too wounded to make it out to his still to refuel it. If we head out to his still and refuel it, he'll give us 50 bucks. To refuel the still, we need to find his shack that's south of town. Then we need to find some firewood to refuel the still. However, after accepting this quest, we have to complete it within 24 hours. Otherwise, his hooch will go bad. So we've got a ticking clock. But we should have enough time to talk with a few people first. Next to Whisky Bob is Arden Buckner. The first thing she does is ask us if we've seen a trapper named Smiley. We recall from the sandwich board that she is the one that reported him missing. She kind of misses him and kind of wants him back. Turns out the two of them are kind of a couple. She finally convinced him to get serious and settle down with her. But then he up and disappears. Said he had to go out on one last quest. You see, he's an adventurer. And he thought he discovered the source of the Golden Geckos. Golden Gecko hides are extremely valuable. So he ran off to find the Golden Geckos source to strike it rich. He thought they might have come from some sort of magical spring or a hidden vault. But he hasn't come back. And in fact, he's two weeks late. If we tell her that we'll keep our eyes open for him, she thinks us. And marks his location on our map. We can now visit the toxic caves. But let's finish exploring Klamath first. Now if we chose to rustle the Brahman from Tor. When we talk with Arden Buckner here, we learn that Tor is also missing. He took off last night she said. I got mad at him after we lost those last few Brahman. We just can't afford to lose any more. But all he would talk about is the bug men taking them. That fool boy, she says. Wow, now we have so much to do. Before heading out, let's finish exploring Buckners. We find Arden's daughter, Meida, on the opposite side of the room. She is described as being a plain looking, sturdily built young woman with a scowl on her face. She doesn't seem particularly interested in answering our questions, but we can ask anyway. If we ask her about the garden of Eden Creation Kit, we discover some of her prejudices. She says that the only way to create a garden of Eden is through plain old hard work. Which is something she says, tribals just don't seem to understand. She considers herself to be much more civilized. We see another tribal in the corner of this room. We learn that his name is Sulek. She says that Sulek is a tribal who is working here to pay off a debt that he owes her. She is quick to say however, that he is not a slave. They don't have slaves here in Klamath. We learn that Sulek incurred his debt after he got upset here in the bar one night. Had too much booze and busted up the place. He incurred nearly $500 worth of damage. The reason he got upset is he found out that his sister had been kidnapped by slavers. But she doesn't know anything else about the story. Of that $500, he's only worked off about $150. He still owes them $350. We can offer to pay off the rest of Sulek's debt. But that's $350, which I didn't have at the time. We'll need to find a way to get $350 by scavenging from the town. Next we can talk with the tribal Sulek. What can we and I do you for? We and I? Who's we? The spirits with me friend. They be all around. Sometimes talk. What spirits? Spirits be everywhere. Travel with we and I? Grandpa born to most talking. Who's Grandpa born? He's a strong spirit. Much Anna carrying him. Wait, you mean that bone in your nose? Deepim close. Easy to touch his spirit. That's why he talked the most. Okay, he keeps his grandfather's bone in his nose. That's brilliant. Well, hey, can I ask you some questions? We and I, no mini-tings. Travel from great saltwater to home of biting lizards. Tell me about the great saltwater. The tribe's home is next to great saltwater. Two moons from here friend. Two moons, huh? That's a long way. How'd you travel so far so safely? Friend with all the spirits walking with me. Not afraid to travel anywhere. Biting lizards? Geckles. The little do's don't bite hard. It's the golden. They go through your leg like an old pipe sting. Ah, now we can see why a whiskey bomb was so injured. So why did you travel so much? Trade a name Vic's supposed to be here. He'd be saying he knew about slavers. We show up, didn't peep him. Get pretty hot. Ah, so Suluk is looking for Vic too. Why are you here looking for slavers? Slavars got our sys. Don't Vic be having information. Couldn't peep him. Got peeled. Drink like a fish. Spirits of anger and chaos pop out and now we have to pay some coin to make it right. Okay, so he got mad when he found out that Vic wasn't here, got drunk and trashed the place. That's why he owes Maida 500 bucks. So you were looking for Vic the trader? Victor Trader more like. Comes to village says he knows about slavers. Tells us to come see him. We go. He ain't there. Your sister was taken by slavers? Sis went trading at another village and never come back. We and I go look for her. What did you find at the other village? One survivor. Dude was in bad shape. Said evil warriors came with magic torches. Fire would lick tribe warriors and they'd go to the spirit. What about your sister? The evil warriors tied up the rest and took off. Sys with them. Friend, we be findin her or die and tryin'. I sure sounds like slavers to me. Have you found anything out about them? We and I know their slavers had din. When we were free, we're outta here. Slavers at the den. But he can't go after them because he's stuck here to pay off that debt. Even if we know, we can ask him how much he owes. We all made at $350. You head in south. We walk about with you and look for sis. You having $350? Ha ha ha. Well that's a kind offer, Sulik. We could really use a companion, but I don't have that kind of money yet. Let's put a pin in that, come back to it. Hey in the meantime, maybe you can answer some questions about town. Where can I find trade, a healer or a room? So many questions. Made a takes care of trade here and her mother Arden takes care of the rooms. No shaman in town, but you may be able to trade for medicine. Have you ever heard of the garden in Viden creation, Kit? Never heard of it. But made us been keeping us busy. Who's madea? She's the boss. We pay off and go find sis. What's going on in town? Oh busy place. Bookman's not in cattle. Spirit's walking. Smiley missing. Why don't you tell me about the bug man? Toa be telling us about bugs that walk on two feet and steal brawman. Shook him up. Walkin spirits, tell me about that. The canyon east of herd area supposed to have a walkin' howl in spirit. Shaking the locals. Grab a bond and see a word do. I don't like this sound of that. What about this Smiley who's gone missing? Smiley's a good hunter. Say he lookin' for the golden geckos nist. Didn't come back. Well poor old Sula here is looking for his kidnapped sister. And he got stuck here in Klamath. We need to somehow drum up 350 bucks to help him out. And find Smiley and avoid a walking spirit. And fix whiskey bob still and figure out where Vic went. Oh man there's a lot on our plate. While inspecting this inn, we can try to scrounge up some gear to sell. Inside a desk in the eastern room, we find a Stimpack and 45 bucks. North of this we find a locked door. After picking it we find a bunch of storage. Crates boxes, barrels and containers. And on the ground we find a golden gecko pelt. Grabbing the pelt will sell it later. Back out into the southern room we find a bookshelf. Here we find four gecko pelt and we've made a good start. Talking with Mehta, we can sell the loot that we have. But she only has 62 caps on her inventory. So we're not gonna get to the full 350 unless we find another merchant. We don't find much else in the other hotel rooms. So we'll leave Buckners to explore the rest of Klamath. But remember we've got to do so within the next 24 hours. Or we fail whiskey bob's quest. Heading south we see a building with a big blades advertisement. We remember that from Fallout 1. We just find drifters and townsfolk wandering around. In the southwestern room we find a bookshelf and inside two flares, some fruit and throwing knives. Heading out we can explore the building to the south. We don't find anything in this room but just outside we find an angry dog. After seeing us it follows us inside. GURRWUFFGURR! Our only option is to stare into the dog's eyes and go, GURRWRGURR! But then the dog turns hostile. And it attacks! I really didn't want to kill the dog. So racing out of the building and running south, we can zone into the southern trapping grounds. This is where whiskey bob has his still. But we just zoned out here to lose aggression. We'll go look for that still a bit later. Head back to that southern room and avoiding the dog. We find a foot locker at the base of a bed with some healing powder and a flower inside. Moving to the northern side of town, we can explore the small middle building. Here we find the Dunton Brothers. Looks like when they're not rustling cattle, they have a shop here selling some of their jerky. He asks us if we'd like to buy some of his jerky, which he calls dry meat. When we ask about it he says that his dry meat is an incredible blend of 11 herbs and spices. It's finger-licking good! And animals love it too. They'll chase you all over town to get some. Oh, that's why the dog chased us into that room. When we ask him to tell us more, he says it's made from people. But then he laughs, yuck, yuck, yuck, just kidding. I wanted to see your expression. Okay, haha. Funny guy. We can barter with him on his inventory we find a copy of Katz-Paw Magazine. It's important to loot as many of these as we confine early in the game as they will become important to collect later. He, like Mehta, has 65 caps on his inventory to barter with. So selling what we can, we can buy him out. In the back of the room he does have a bookshelf, but if we try to loot it, and if we're not sneaky enough, he'll attack. But if we come back at night while the Denton Brothers are at the Golden Gecko Tavern, we can loot the place. The bedroom door is locked, but if we can pick it, we find quite a stash in the bookshelf. Another Katz-Paw Magazine. Three pieces of jerky, a Molotov cocktail, some beer whiskey, and more gecko pence. Moving back out to the shop floor, we can loot the bookshelf behind the counter, where we find more jerky. To the north we find a fenced-off area and a small outhouse. Inside the outhouse we find a copy of Katz-Paw Magazine. Remember this is the magazine we want to collect. Heading into the pen, we can go south to walk through a door into this nearby building. There's food in the refrigerator, and a bunch of slaughtered brawmen all over the ground. So this is the Denton Brothers slaughterhouse, where they make all of their dried meats. Disturbingly we find a Golden Gecko corpse on the ground, and a dead pig rat on the ground. So it's not just brawmen meat we're eating, we're eating pig rat and gecko. In a locker we find more of their dry meat and a combat knife. As we continue to explore, we find a pile of bones on the ground. I can't even tell what animal these belong to. And more bodies just lying here rotting. I don't think I'm in the mood for any more dry meat. So avoiding that end, now that we have the jerky, we can head south to try to find that dog. When we find him we again have the option to stare into his eyes and growl and bark, but we found out what happens when we do that last time. Instead we find an option to say, you're just hungry aren't you boy? Let me see if I have some delicious dry meat to give you. The dog barks happily and opens his mouth to eat the dry meat, but as he does, a key falls out of his mouth. I wonder why he was carrying it around, or maybe it got stuck in his mouth and it was causing pain. At any rate, we now have a key. Time to find out what this key is for. We also have a temporary companion. The dog now follows us all over the place, and we now have all the cash we need to pay off Sulek's debts. Heading back to the Buckner house, we can talk with Sulek. What can we and I do you for? I'm here to pay off your debt. Here's the $350. Yeah, we be given this tomato, then we be free. Want us to walk by and buy. That would be great Sulek. With that, we essentially purchase his freedom. And we now have two companions, Sulek and the dog, but the dog won't stick with us for very long. As soon as we zone out of this place, he leaves. But with Sulek's help here, we can finish our quests much more quickly. Perhaps we can actually survive all of those geckos in the trap in ground. But first, we'll finish exploring all of these buildings. Heading to the northwesternmost building, we find the Golden Gecko Tavern Hotel and Trading Post. Run by Sejag. We remember Sejag's name from the Sandwich Board. He has a much bigger inventory than Minda and the Dunton brothers. We can actually get some gear from him and he has 130 bucks to barter with. After trading, we can ask him some questions. He tells us of a few towns nearby. He describes our hometown of Oroyo. And he gives us the location of the den, which is a few days south of here. That's where Sulek's trying to go to find any trace of his sister. Then he tells us about the mining town of Redding, far away to the southwest. He tells us about Vic the Trader and about his house on the eastern end of town. But again, says that he hasn't seen Vic in a while, though he does say that Vic trades at the den from time to time. He then tells us a story about ROUS's rodents of unusual size. Some say there's a giant rat. The size of a Corvega that rules over all the rats in Trappertown. He lives in an old mine beneath Trappertown. And at other rats, bring him many shiny objects that they find. He strangely then licks his lips and says, Mmm, shiny bobbles. Okay, weirdo. We learned the location of the canyon with the walking spirits. It's just west of town. He says that a few months ago, a bright light came from the canyon. And then critters all over town started disappearing. They found many tracks leading to the canyon, but no tracks ever coming out. Some say they hear a weird, whining sound. Echoing from the canyon walls. Oh, no walking spirits disappearing animals and a whining sound. I think I want to steer clear of that canyon. Before we leave, we see a tall, graying man with a tanker to veil, sitting at one of the tables. As soon as we talk with him, he says that he can tell by the way we are walking that we could use some pointers. When we ask him pointers with what, he says, well, about sweet science, of course. Sweet science, we say. Do you mean you can teach us magic? He grins broadly and says, yes, I can teach you about the way folk. The leprechauns, the sprigans, banches and the like. Would you like that? If we say yes, he looks at a nearby patron. Whisperer's and says, did you hear that? I've got myself a live one here. What's to hear about the fairies and the wee goblins and such? He laughs and then says, here, have a drink on me. That's your ticket to the realm of the fave folk. But the drink is just the start. You see, to learn this magic, we have to find a fairy mound. We sit at the mound and then wait until we can see a fairy circle in the dew. Then if we jump into the fairy ring, we'll be made to dance until dawn with the wee folk. If we survive the all night dancing, they'll steal us away to the land of fairy. When we ask him how he knows so much about fairy magic, he says, oh, it's in me blood, of course. Aaron gobra. But that's just one way to have this conversation. Back at the start of the conversation, instead of asking him if by science he meant magic, we asked, what are you talking about? We learned that it wasn't about the art of magic. He wanted to teach us about the art of pugilism, the manly art of hand-to-hand combat. That's what he meant. We can reject his offer by saying we already know more than him, or we could say sure. I could use some help with that. He says, alright, the key is to get your whole body to snap like a whip. It fades to black. And by nightfall, we've earned 150 experience. And John Sullivan here, for that is his name, has improved our melee and unarmed combat skills by 10%. We were lucky to meet him. He wants famous as a boxer from New Reno. We can thank him by buying him a $10 brew, and he says it was my pleasure. You take care of yourself now, and if anyone asks, just tell them that fightin' John Sullivan taught you how to fight that way. So, just don't talk with fightin' John Sullivan about magic, and all goes well. Hoorrrr. Exploring the inn, we find some money and booze in one of the bookshelves. At night, the Dunton Brothers hang out at the Golden Gecko Tavern. If we try to talk to them, they challenge us to an arm-rustling match. If we succeed, they buy us a drink. While talking with them, we can get them to confess their entire scam using the scorpion arms to dress up like bug men. And if we haven't completed the Brahman quest yet, we can get rustling the Brahman here from the Dunton Brothers. But since we've completed it, we'll move on. Now that we've explored the center of town, we can start on some of these quests. Heading south from the Buckner House, we find our ruined building, we can loot a Nuka Cola and a Guns & Bullets magazine from nearby bookshelf. Heading south, we arrive at the large field where Whiskey Bob has his still. We see the shack down to the south, but the place is swarming with Geckos. No wonder he got bitten. But with Sulix help, we make short work of them. Sulix prefers melee. He comes with a sledgehammer, and during combat, we'll frequently knock enemies back, forcing them to use more of their action points. At his maximum level, he'll have 12 action points, the highest of all possible companions in the game. He can use some weapons like the 223 pistol and the 14mm pistol, and he's proficient with SMGs, like the H&K G11E and the H&K P90C. However, it's dangerous to give any companion an automatic weapon because they're not careful with burst damage, and can easily kill the chosen one or our other companions. So melee weapons, and either the 223 pistol or the 14mm pistol, are the best options. At length, we clear a path to Whiskey Bob's shack. Heading inside, we see his still, but it's not functioning. To get it working, we need to define some firewood. We find a stack of firewood to the south, after looting it, we can use it on the still. It sounds as though the Hooch is distilling nicely now, and we gain 100 experience for refueling the still. When done, we can head out, kill any more geckos along our way, and return to Whiskey Bob at the Buckner House. Thanks, he says, now I don't have to go out there myself. Even if it did cost me 65 bucks, and he hands us our fee. After completing his quest, he opens up and tells us more news from around town. He does tell us more about Trapper Town, saying that it has become overrun with rats, and the rats appear to get bigger, the deeper you get. Some say that there is one huge, great rat spirit that's leading them all. The rats are even scaring away the trappers, and they say it's not safe to stay there anymore. He tells us more about the den, describing it as a hive of human scum and villainy. If interested, we can find it a few days travel south of Klamath, they sell anything. Even slaves there. But we have to be careful, because the people of the den have short tempers. He again corroborates what we learned from Sejak that Vick was last seen traveling south to the den, and that he never returned. He also tells us the direction that Smiley was last seen traveling. He went off north in search of the source of the Golden Geckos. Before continuing on with our quests, there were a few more buildings here in town that we missed. Directly north of the Buckner House is the bathhouse. Inside we find one woman. Before we go any further, she says, you've got to know that the baths are for individuals, not groups. You can make your own arrangements, and then your friends can do as they please on their own. Okay, so we're not doing a group, huh, sessions. We learn that her name is Sally Dunton, but everyone calls her Big No Sally. They have an assortment of special attended baths that we can pick from. They don't do unattended baths, we can always take those at the Golden Geckos or the Buckner House, but she says, I doubt you'll find those baths quite as enjoyable. The special attended baths vary in cost by the amount of time that the female attendant spends with us. And any other special services we choose to take advantage of? Their menu breaks down like this. On the lowest end they have the washcloth hand wipe. Then there's the brief full body wash. And finally the round-the-world full squeaky clean servicing. Offered only by the beautiful and talented Jenny. We're currently trained at the finest house in the den. The hand wipe costs $25. The full body wash is 70 bucks. When we ask her about the round-the-world full squeaky clean wash, she says that we're actually too filthy for that. Before we can get that wash, we need to be scrubbed down by someone named GERDA first. Then we'll get the squeaky clean services from Jenny. The whole package is 105 bucks. We can say, wait a minute, is GERDA that large, mustachioed woman? And we can back out, or we can say, I'm ready to enjoy Jenny's services. The screen fades to black, and we arrive in the nearby bedroom. That's suspiciously has no bath. Here we find Jenny. G-Mrs. she says, that was pretty quick. You must be pretty new at this sort of thing. Just relax a bit and you'll enjoy it more. Cali. Our only option is to say, thanks Jenny. I guess I need some more practice at this. After that humiliating exchange, we can finally ask her some questions. Remember the whole point of our coming here? Is to ask her about Vic. She and Vic had a special relationship. She tells us that trappers come here often. They spend all day hunting geckos. If they're lucky, they'll find a golden one. Then they come here to unwind. She says that she likes them because they're usually pretty quick. Then when we ask about Vic, she says that she really liked him. He always had extra money to blow. She calls him a real sweetheart. And corroborates what we've already learned, that he would make frequent trips to the den. Even though she was trained at the den, she doesn't have anything good to say about the place. Describing it as a hive of scum and villainy to the southwest of here. It was dangerous, but exciting. And she's half sorry that she had to leave. She has absolutely no idea what we are talking about if we ask about the geck. And that's it for Jenny. Heading out, we can return to the foyer and then open a door to the back. This leads to a hallway in the room to the left. We find a box that has booze in it. Heading back out to the hallway, we can open each of these rooms. In each room is a prostitute. We can't have a conversation, but they will try to flirt with us. When done, we can leave the bathhouse, head back outside. We can go to the eastern side of town to finish exploring this section. There is one bathroom to the south, but nothing here. And opening the door to the right, we can finally explore what should be VIX Antique Shop. In the dresser, we find whiskey, booze, nukakola, a stack of playing cards for playing tragic the gathering. And three, vault 13 water flasks. So this is VIX home. And to have an entire stack of these vault 13 water flasks means he must at some point have been to vault 13. But he's no longer here. And all evidence tells us that he was last seen at the den. Moving to the east, we find a bookshelf. Inside, we find a pie-prifle, a radio, and 10-millimeter ammunition. This pie-prifle is our first rifle, but its ammo capacity is one. Which means we have to reload it after every shot. I suppose it's useful until we find a decent pistol. Now we need to complete our quests. Heading to the southeast, we take the exit grid to Trapper Town. This is the part of town where the trappers like to hang out. At night, we find a bunch of them standing around a fire here saying, what are you doing? They're wearing of us saying they don't have much left for us to steal here. Heading north, we see that Trapper Town is much like a slum. The trappers must not make a lot of wealth from all of their trapping. This complex of buildings is comprised of a number of rooms where the trappers are living. We explore each of them until, while exploring the room on the northwestern side of the furthest building to the right, we find a very tall and lanky trapper. This is slim picket. The leader of the trappers in Trapper Town. We learn that the trappers are being tormented by a bunch of rats here in Trapper Town. That's why they've barricaded some of the streets and blocked off some of the rooms trying to contain the rat issue. He says that most of the rats are coming from a basement to the north, but it's locked. He has the key. If we express interest in becoming a trapper ourselves, he kinda poo-poo's the idea, saying that he doesn't think we'd do a very good job. But he offers to teach us his own trapping skills for 50 bucks. With that, he increases our Outdoorsman skill, if our Outdoorsman skill is less than 29%. After this, he becomes much more willing to talk with us. He tells us more about Geckos. Regular Geckos are pretty easy to kill, but the golden ones are nasty. Have a strong and poisonous bite. As one reason why their pelts are worth so much more. He tells us more about Smiley who's gone missing. He says that he has quite a collection of old pre-war cars. He even has a Chrysler's Highway man. We can see propped up on Cinder blocks to the right. It's a beautiful car. He loves looking at it, but he can't figure out a way to get to it. He also mentions a giant rat god. It's just rumor he says, but he's still gone ahead and locked the only door to the old abandoned mine beneath Trapper Town. And he says that he has the only key. But that abandoned mine is exactly where we need to go. If our steel skill is high enough, we can steal it from him. Or we can barter with him. This also gives us access to his inventory, and we can take it for $0. Or if we play a female chosen one, we can sleep with him for the key. But we don't need to do any of that, because we have a key already. The key we found in the dog's mouth that he dropped when we gave him the drymate is none other than a copy of the key here on Slim's inventory. We can use it to access the mine. After exploring the rooms in the northern section of this building, we can go back to head out a door. The path to the north is blocked. This is one of the barricades Slim told us he made. But from here we can explore the building to the left and head south. Cross a parking lot towards a shack on the southwestern side of town. This shack is right next to a bunch of barrels and a crimson caravan sign. Heading inside we find a locked door. And going outside we find another locked door on the western side of the building. If we pick it, inside we find a trunk on the floor and inside the trunk, two golden gecko pelt and six regular gecko pelt. Quite a haul. Just outside we find a kid running around who begins to follow us around. He raises after us saying, you're a nice tribal, not like the others. Do you have some food? Are you married? What's your name? Do you have kids? And generally just being annoying. But he stops pestering us once we head back into the building. The rooms in this large middle structure don't have anything interesting and the alleyway is blocked off. So to continue north we have to go back into Slim's building and out the doorway to the north. To the northeast we see a former gun shop. Heading through the door we can examine some of the shelves. We find a pair of boots in the left locker, some 10 millimeter ammunition in the middle locker, and another pair of boots in the right locker. These will become important later. Heading out of the gun shop, the door to the north leads to a room that's empty, which forces us to take the alleyway back south. Here we find two doors, a door immediately to the left and a door in a wall to the south. Taking the door in the wall to the south first we can loot many of the rooms down here. We find a skeleton but it's empty. We do find a door to the west leading out to a small warehouse that we can explore. Inside the warehouse we find a number of empty shelves, but we also find a nuker cola machine. But we can't interact with this one. So heading back into the large sprawling building, we can retrace our steps and take the final door on the left side of the alleyway. This leads to a number of rooms connected by doorways and broken walls that are infested with rats. We find dozens of them here. They're not challenging. They just take up an enormous amount of time. At last we arrive at the northernmost room and here we find the corpse of a strong peasant. There's nothing on his inventory, but if these rats could kill even a strong peasant, what can they do to us? At the far end of the room we find a ladder going down into the rat infested mine. Below ground we find our room to the north. Inside a desk here we find some 10 millimeter ammunition. There's some big machine to the south partially blocking our way. These pathways are all filled with rats. Takes a lot of time to cut our way through them. After killing some rats in a little nuk we find a bunch of cardboard boxes, the game even wonders how these cardboard boxes could have survived so long. There are nothing but rats taking the path to the north. So going south we find a split. We fight more rats who take the path to the south. And taking the path to the north we find another ladder going deeper into the earth. But before we go down there let's finish exploring this level. Taking the northern path to the right. We fight through a number of rats until we find a bunch of irradiated nuclear storage barrels. But that's at that end. So repracing our steps we can take the path to the right. Upon we find a pile of bones. And on the bones at crowbar we can take the path south to complete the loop and clear all the rats. This leaves one path remaining and that's to take the ladder down to the next level. As soon as we arrive we fight even more rats. To the south we find some tough pigs. Slightly more challenging than the rats. And it's just as the town folk said. The rats in the abandoned mind just took tougher and tougher. And if they were right about that could they be right about the rat god? On the southern path amongst a bunch of rubble we find a container of 10 millimeter jacketed hollow point ammunition. Fighting our way to the east we eventually find the rat god. He charges at us from a nearby room. But thankfully with soulek's help we pick him off before he can even reach us. After killing him we learn his name was king rat at and by killing him we earn 300 experience. After killing the rat god we can continue to clear these corridors and small rooms. In a tiny nook to the north we find a body on the ground. He had a small amount of cash and a 10 millimeter pistol. Exploring all the way to the north we find a ladder that brings us up one level. We have to fight through and clear yet another winding series of pathways. Even though the rat god is dead these rats are still hostile and we find more tough picks. On the southern side we find a locker with 20 dollars and two stim packs inside. And after clearing the path to the far right we find a box of ammunition on the ground next to an empty skeleton. Taking the path to the north we find a shelf with some dynamite and another crowbar. Just above this we find a locked door. If we can pick it we find a ladder which brings this top side. We arrive in a small shack on the other side of the Klamath fence. An area we can't get to any other way. Leaving the building to the south we find a nookakola machine against this wall but this one has a unique description compared to the last one. This one says you wonder if it still works. With that hint we scrounge through our inventory for a coin. Putting the coin in the machine we hear fuck fuck, caching true. And we dodge a can of nookakola that shoots out of it. We can now pick up the can nearby. There's a big wrecked car out here, a building to the northwest which may have been a school at some time. In the fridge we find two bottles of nookakola and a beer. The building directly south of this one is empty. And heading all the way to the south we see that wrecked Corvega Highway man that Slim has been admiring through the fence. If we examine it we learn that the machine is in bad shape but that there's a package in the back seat. If we loot it we find the fuel injection system of a Corvega Highway man. We don't know what this is for at the moment but we'll save this for later. However we have reached a dead end. Slim never got here because there's no gate in the fence leading to the highway man. So to get back to town we have to go back into the shack and retrace our steps all the way through the rat warren. Back to Trapper Town we can talk to Slim. He says you're just a regular pied piper aren't ya? Thank you. Passing the Trappers by the campfire they don't think too poorly of us anymore. And we can take the exit zone to the east back up to downtown. Next we need to track down the walking spirits inside the Klamath Canyon. We remember they told us about a whining noise coming from this canyon and as we enter the canyon we immediately see what it is. We get attacked by a hama's side Mr. Handy robot stuck in defense mode that shouts popular cut phrases from science fiction TV and movies. Nanu Nanu from Mark and Mindy. I am sorry David. From Space Odyssey he can shout a number of phrases from science fiction including Gort Klaatu. Barada Nikko from The Day The Earth stood still. The Jeee, the Jeee. From Stock Trek the motion picture does not compute from Lost in Space and Danger Bill Williamson. Danger. Which of course is a reference to Lost in Space. Only the robot said Danger will Robinson. If we come here after having rustled Tor's Brahman for the Dunton Brothers and after we discovered that Tor went missing we find that the Mr. Handy robot was keeping Tor captive. Or at least was preventing Tor from coming back home we find Tor here only if we rustled his Brahman for the Dunton Brothers. Otherwise we'll find the handy guarding the path alone. At the end of the path we see a big crashed machine. This is a crashed vertebrae. Now we understand the bright light the townsfolk told us about. It was the explosion of this vertebrae crashing. We find the bodies of enclave soldiers lying here. What on earth is the enclave? And on one of the bodies we find a yellow pass card. This pass card has no function in the game. It's a remnant of some cut content from the game. We can loot the card as a collectible but it has no use. And the critters disappearing. Animal tracks leading into the canyon but none ever coming out were geckos and other wildlife lured by the stench of the corpses. But then being killed by the Mr. Handy. Strange we don't see piles of animal bodies here though. Perhaps they were vaporized. We learn from the events of Fallout New Vegas that this vertebrae was the very vertebrae that belonged to Daisy Whitman. And in fact she is the one who crashed it here in Clamath Canyon. Verdabird Violet. 71 missions and only lost one chopper. Rotor-mau function over Clamath. Hard landing but I walked away. And we also learn that the unique blade that Lily uses in Fallout New Vegas was crafted from one of the blades of this very crashed vertebrae. This old thing always scavenged it off a wreck in Clamath. Leo showed me how to make it all ready for chopping. Didn't you, Leo? If we had to rescue Tor in our game, when we head back to Buckner's and talk to Ada, she says you found my son Tor. Thank you so much. We can walk away without asking for a reward. Or if we have yet to pay off Suleik's debt, we find an option to say if you could consider Suleik's debt paid, that would be reward enough. She tells us that that's fine and we can check in with Meida. When we do, we find her sobbing. She says that Tor can go, but we learn that she actually really liked him. Despite her prejudice against Tribals, she ended up becoming friends with him. And she's sad to see him go. This is one way to get Suleik as a companion without having to spend any money. But we do have to conspire with the Dunton brothers to do so. With Tor rescued, we have one task left to achieve. And that's to discover the whereabouts of Trapper Smiley. Now we remember from talking with many of the residents of Klamath, that Trapper Smiley was last seen traveling north to try and track down the source of the Golden Geckos. We learned the exact location of where he went when we talked with his girlfriend, Arden, at the Buckner House. So heading out of Klamath, we find a new location just northwest of Klamath called the Toxic Caves. These Toxic Caves are filled with Geckos. And the floor of the caves is covered in a thick green Toxic Goo. This Toxic Goo will hurt us. But the damage is level dependent. It could devastate us quickly at a really young level. But if we come back at a higher level, it may do negligible damage. But it's still painful. Unless we wear the rubber boots that we found in the warrants beneath Trapper Town. Our companions will take damage too, so we need to make sure that Sulik has a pair of boots on his inventory. We don't have to eat, rip them, we just have to have the boots in our inventory. If we don't wear boots, not only will we take damage, but eventually our feet will mutate. And in one month, we'll sprout two extra toes, one on each foot. We'll know when our feet have absorbed enough toxin to mutate toes in about a month. When we see the message, your feet start to burn and itch. From that point on, it's just a matter of time. This toe doesn't really harm us, but we can remove it later. Though extra toe removal isn't cheap. It's also possible for the rubber boots to completely melt, leaving the chosen one or our companions without any protection at all. So if we can find spares, it may be pretty to bring them. After this south, we can open a door to a small room where we find a locker. Inside the locker, we find a Stimpac three flares, some rad away, and more rubber boots. At the end of this level, we find a hole in the ground leading to another level below. This level is filled with toxic irradiated barrels. And of course, more geckos. We have three ways to pass through. We can go north, which is a path that has lots of geckos, but less toxic goo. We can go through the middle of this map, which has plenty of geckos and piles of toxic goo. Or we can take the southern path, which pretty much skips almost the whole floor, and there's no toxic goo. At the end, however, we do have to get past a few of these geckos, and then quickly walk across a little bit of toxic goo. At the end, we find an elevator and a room to the south. After opening the door, we find Smiley. As a stranger, he says, people call me Smiley. I'm sure glad to see you. I thought I was going to die here for certain. He had to stay here because he was hurt too bad to get past the geckos. He tells us, as we've heard already, that he came here in search of the source of the golden geckos. And this must be it. They must have mutated from geckos that lived here. The toxic goo made them into the monsters they are. He managed to get in this room and hide. After him, because they don't like walking through the goo, though strangely they do enjoy eating it. After rescuing him, he joins us as a temporary companion. Now, in the back of this room, we find a computer console. But even using our science skill, we don't learn anything. And if we go to the elevator, we find that it's not powered. We have to get the generator working. We find the generator back in the room where we found Smiley, but it requires a pretty high level of repair to fix it. And so, I had to come back here much later in the game with a companion who could repair things for me. But even after repairing the generator, we can't open the elevator door without an electronic lock pick. My character at this time had over 100 in lock picking, but it's still required an electronic lock pick. One of the earliest places to find one is in the basement of a gun shop at New Reno. That still weighs off in the plot from here. But that electronic lock pick also comes with two pulse grenades, which as we'll soon see, are about to come in very handy. However, we get an electronic lock pick, once we have one, we can use it on the elevator door. We can take the elevator down to the first floor. As soon as we open the elevator, we see something to the right. And as we approach it, a hoots a sentry bot, and it's attacking with its entire missile arsenal. This guy is really tricky. He has well over 100 hit points, and his missiles can devastate our companions. I managed to finally kill him by throwing a pulse grenade. The pulse grenade does enormous damage against robots, and after successfully landing one on him, my companions and I were quickly able to finish him off with our ballistic weapons. Thankfully, the sentry bot is the only guard down here, and we find a lot of great stuff. In the room to the left, we find a desk with a copy of guns and bullets and a nukikola. Heading south down the hallway, we pass by a number of storage rooms. But we don't find anything in them until we explore the locker room to the left. In the first locker, we find Radaway, Radix, and Stimpex. And in the second one, we find 200 rounds of 2mm EC, 200 rounds of 4.7mm caseless, and 200 rounds of 0.223 full-metal tanks. Holy cow, this is some great ammunition, especially for this level. The biggest cache is to the south. In the first locker, we find a stack of energy cells and micro fusion cells. In the second locker, we find a plasma pistol, a laser pistol, and more energy cells. And in the third locker, we find a Bowsar sniper rifle and a full suit of combat armor. We can understand when the developers made it so difficult to get into this room. I had to wait in many levels before I came back here to loot the place so you won't see me using the Bowsar rifle or the combat rifle for quite some time. But taking the elevator back up and with Smiley as a temporary companion, we can carefully tip to around the toxic goo and avoid any remaining geckos to leave the toxic caves. Heading back to Klamath, we can go back to the Buckner house to check in with Arden. She says you're the one who found my Smiley, thank you so much. I don't have much she says, but here's $100. She wishes it could be more, but with all the brawmen they keep losing, that's all they can afford. But our real reward comes when we again talk with Smiley. We see him sitting at a table at the bottom part of the room. I sure owe you for saving my hide, he says. At least I can do is teach us something in return. If we agree, he offers to teach us how to skin geckos so that we can produce our own gecko hides. The training takes about an hour and when done, we can go and skin all the geckos that we've already killed. Loot their pelts to make a great profit. Smiley tells us that Arden is so happy to have him back that the two of them may get married soon. Klamath is often mentioned during the events of Fallon in Vegas. If we had to west side, we find a man wearing a red cap named Klamath Bob. Howdy, names Bob, but folks around here call me Klamath Bob. Yeah, good old Klamath, not a bad place if you like hunting, eating and skinning geckos all day. It's a pretty dull place, but I hear there was a bit of excitement when this tribal from a royal cape of town years back. All before my time though. And with that, we finish every quest in Klamath, gain Suleik as a new companion and discovered exactly where Vic went. He went south to the den. We've got to find Vic to see if he knows where Vault 13 is so we can get a geck for our tribe. In our next video, we will travel south to the den and uncover the city horrors of the den's underworld in search of Vic. I publish many videos each and every week here on my channel, so if you don't want to miss my next episode, be sure to subscribe and click that bell notification button. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wider ray of colors. They come on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, stickers, mugs, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.