In our last video we met Mr. Salvatore. Leader of the Salvatore crime family in New Reno. We were sent there by Big Jesus Mordino to assassinate him, but instead we decided to work for him for a bit. We killed a guy named Pretty Boy Lloyd who robbed him, explored all the graves in Golgotha, and now he wants us to head to the other side of town to extract a loyalty payment from a guy named Renesco. This was the guy Zayus told us that we could get a mine part from to repair the filter in the Iranian mine at Broken Hills. So we've got a lot to chat with this guy about. On the other side of town, we see a large building with a bunch of junkies standing around outside. They beg us for money and shit, and we find even more loitering around inside. We see a number of countertops and shelves in this room, but they're all empty. We find two bathrooms to the north last, but they're all empty too. Now the point of interest is behind a large fence in the northeast corner of the building. Opening a door to the fence, we enter Renesco's pharmacy. The old man pushes his broken glasses up on his nose and sighs in exasperation. Yes, what is it that you want? Come on, man, out with it. Who are you, we can ask? And he says me? Oh, I'm just Jolly St. Nick, you crannily challenged half-wit. St. Nick, we can say, who the hell is that? And Renesco pauses. Another postnatally aborted wreck in a post-tolacost world replete with idiot men children. He raises his fist out of my shop. Out at once. Don't you come back, you hear? We find a number of ways to anger this cranky old guy. Instead of saying, who's St. Nick, we can say, look, I'm gonna let your comments slide this time. Now, who aren't you? And he glares at us then snorts. Names Renesco. Just tell me what it is you want you. Well, whatever it is you are. And then he squins at us. You'll look like one of those sun-worshipping primates under all that get up. And we can say, oh yeah, well, I am from a village to the northwest, a rollo. And Renesco glares at us again this time in silence. But we can continue. I think you'd like a rollo. It's a peaceful village, except for the plants possessed by evil spirits. And of course, the temple of trials filled with those deadly spear traps and the man-eating giant rats. Renesco continues to glare at us. And sometimes the elder gets upset at little things like, that one night when I ignored my vow of celibacy and snuck out with Reina, whose legs crush with strength of thousands snakes to the rollo. Kenyan and Renesco gives us a withering stare. It was like yesterday. We can continue. Reina's body glowed like silver in the moonlight when she knelt down and, hey, you know what? You might like the elder. She's about your age. Renesco continues to glare at us as if he could somehow make us disappear just by imagining it hard enough. Did I mention a rollo was founded by my ancestor? The holy vaultweller? He made a legendary journey from the south after defeating a great evil. We puff up our chest and stare proudly into the distance. Now I am the deliverer of my tribe, chosen to search for the holy gack. Gack? Says Renesco? As in, garden of Eden creation kit? Comes with a basic replicator unit, Holodisk Reader with selections from the Library of Congress and a little pen flashlight? We can say it is said to be sealed within Vault 13. Or so the legends say, do you know of such a place? And he says, hell no primate. I've heard of vaults, sure, but not Vault 13. Closest thing is Vault City to the Northeast. And if those are aristocratic jackenapes inhabited of vault once, they sure as hell don't live there now. Vaults? We can ask. There is more than one Vault. And he says, why do you think it's called Vault 13, Spear Chucker? What? Was your tribe short on brains? Or did he just perform ritual lobotomies to cleanse the tiny voice of reason that speaks in your head? Our only options here in the conversation. So going back, and instead of asking him, if he knows where Vault 13 is, we can choose either of the top two options, both of which get the same response from Renesco. Yes, we can say that is the geck I'm talking about, but that's not important right now. I haven't finished telling you about a rollo. And he says, your backwater herb smoking village be damned. Add you along with it. Why is a primate like you looking for a geck? A rollo we can say, my backwater herb smoking village, as you say, is having trouble with its crops. The geck is needed to restore them. And he says, hmm, it sure could do that easy. If you could find one, don't even know where you'd start looking. NCR, or Vault City maybe, I doubt they have one. Still, still, we can say. And he says, still, those self-righteous bastards might be able to point you in a direction. If they speak slowly and use small words, and we can say, why would the geck not be in Sacred Vault 13? The scriptures say that the geck is sealed within the Sacred Vault 13. And when escog glairs at us, it looks like he's undressing you mentally, then tearing us a limb from limb. Or instead we can say, NCR, or Vault City you say, I'll go in search of these places and ask their villagers about the geck. Thank you. And he responds by saying, if you're going to Vault City, don't thank me, primate, you're better off in New Reno, at least the people who are sizing you up for a coffin are honest about it. And instead of boring this poor guy with talk of our tribal village, we can ask him, what do you sell here? And he says, I sell recreational kems mostly. That's why they gave me that idiotic appellation, the rocket man. I also sell some caravan supplies. You need anything? Or can I get back to something important? And the chosen one can say, you sell kems here in the store? And when escog looks at us and disgust, yes, in the store. This isn't the 20th century where kems are sold by street corner cockroaches who live in constant fear of the authorities. Well then we can say, and he says, this is New Reno. There are no cops, no law. And there's plenty of customers who don't mind buying poison at the pharmacy down the street. Does that answer your question, primate? And the chosen one can say, but like you said, the kems are poisonous. They kill the spirit. Doesn't it bother you to sell them? And he says, does it bother me to sell them to idiots, slavers, crime lords, and tribals that the world would be better off without? Primate three words. Get out more. And the chosen one can say, but the kems here in New Reno are finding their way to other places and hurting the people there. Doesn't that concern you? And he says, so what do I care about them? The human race has suffered horrible tragedy, we can say. Now we are trying to rebuild. Selling jet seems counterproductive to that reconstruction. So what? No one is forcing those idiots to inhale jet. No one's going around jamming it down their throats, he says, but don't those labhead rock humbers and writing no what they're taking. So why don't feel a millimeter of pity for him? Far as I'm concerned, jet weeds out the human trash that should have died when the bombs dropped. You mentioned writing specifically, we can say. Why is jet so prevalent in writing? And he says, well, redding's a special case. See, there's people in Reno who make sure redding's well supplied. After all, you taste jet once, you're hooked. It's how I make my living. Who's making sure redding is well supplied? We can ask. And why? And he says, well, tribal, I doubt you have the sense to notice this yet, but new Reno doesn't produce anything useful. It's like a big brightly lit prairie tick sitting out in the desert. Now, redding on the other hand does produce something useful. We can finish his sentence. And Ronesco stops us. First and last time I'm going to warn you, tribal, don't finish my dag on sentences. I don't like smart ass primates that talk when they should listen. No wonder you all still use spears. Not all of us, we can say. For example, I use a variety of weapons to kill people. Let me show you. But that just ends the conversation. And Ronesco says, get out of here. So instead of finishing his sentence, we can ask him to go on. He continues. Redding has a stable workforce that mines raw materials, mostly gold. New Reno sure could use that gold. Somebody figures all we gotta do is get those miners hooked. And we got them for life. You understand now? Who's trying to hook all the miners we can ask? And he says, big Jesus Mordino's funneling jet into redding. Typical power play. Once the pipeline really gets going, those miners are goners. Where did jet come from, we can ask? And he says, we have one person to thank for, Jett. You heard a family Mordino's little golden boy, Myron? Well, the little bastard created Jett. Big Jesus Mordino just let everyone know where they could get it. Tell me more about Myron we can ask. And he says, horny as a toad and all the morals of one. Smart kid though, high IQ. Wasting his brains, manufacturing kems, that's for damn certain. Where can I find him we can ask? And he says, the Mordino's got him locked up somewhere. Have a look at it probably. Don't know exactly where. Is there any cure for Jett we can ask? And he says, a cure from Metemphetamine Reliance? Ha! I only know two. And one is death. The other is locking yourself in a cage for a year without Jett and sweat it out of your system. Bump. Cure my ass. What nonsense. After getting to know good old Renesco here, we can barter with him. He has a small amount of money, some Jimmy hats, and a pretty extensive selection of kems. But it's important that we don't buy anything now. And I'll tell you why in a minute. Next we can say, I'm looking for some mine parts for Broken Hills. And his eyes narrow. So? Well, we can say, I need the parts to fix the air purifier in the mine. I was told you could help me. And he says, yes, I do happen to have some parts that could fix the air purifier. A hundred bucks. How about 50 bucks we can say? And if we fail the barter, check he frowns. 200 or nothing. 200 we can say, you said a hundred a second ago. Inflation due to managerial irritation with hagglers. He says, 200 or nothing. I'll take it we can say, here you go. And he hands it over, here you go. He says, don't drop them. With that we pay Renesco the $200 for some mine parts. You see a bunch of parts that are clearly labeled GX9 air purifier. Using your incredible deductive skills, you decide that there are probably parts for a broken air purifier. It weighs 10 pounds. Well, great now we can head back to Broken Hills. But before we do, we can talk with Renesco about Mr. Salvatore's tribute. I've come to collect Mr. Salvatore's tribute we can ask. Then you wasted a trip he says, I paid Mr. Salvatore his tribute two weeks ago, as per the schedule. I don't know who you are and what you think you're doing, but you aren't getting one red chip from me. Get. I am Mr. Salvatore's representative. We can respond. You will give me the tribute I have asked for. And you will do so now. You lose your hair and boy says Renesco. I said I paid the tribute already two weeks ago. If you were really from Salvatore, you would know that. Now get. Instead of attacking, we can say you're the one who's lost your hearing. I am Mr. Salvatore's representative. And you will pay the tribute. Prove you're from Salvatore, he says, and I'll consider giving you the chips. Else you aren't getting crap. I don't need to prove myself we can say I am his representative. And that is all you need to know. He says, don't matter, I can't pay. The last collection nearly wiped me out. That's not my concern we can say. You will get me the money now. Mr. Salvatore does not want to hear your excuses. Threatening me ain't gonna help says Renesco. Mr. Salvatore wants his money. I don't have it. He'll be mad at me, but he'll be mad at you too. Salvatore doesn't like people who let him down. You better figure something out quick. And a witty chosen one can say, I already have. I will pay your share of this period. In exchange, you will give me a discount at your store. Now hold on, Unian Dr. Thal, he says. But the chosen one can say, I will not argue with you anymore. My patience is at an end. Those are my terms. And he says, I look now, I... All right then. You get a discount. When we're ready, we can say let me see your stock. I will make my purchases now. And with that, the trade dialogue goes up. And we can buy everything in his inventory for one dollar. However, this only works once. The next time we barter with him, everything is full price. So we have one opportunity to buy as much of his inventory for one dollar as we can carry. Which means it's probably smart to dump all of our junk onto our companions before talking with Rinesco. Remember, as per the deal we just made, we now have to pay Mr. Salvatore out of our own pockets. So it's important to walk away with as much of Rinesco's inventory as possible. While we're on this side of town, we might as well explore some of the other buildings here, heading directly south. We find a building with a heart on it. It appears to be a church. And behind the pulpit is Father Tully. Greetings, my son. Was it Father Tully can do for you on this fine, fine Reno Day? Uh, it's actually nighttime, Father. We can say, Al must have overslept. Would have noticed otherwise. What the hell was I say? Who are you, we can ask? And he says, Father Tully, ask your service. I'm the spiritual advisor to the good, well, to the people of New Reno. Is being drunk the only way that you can accomplish that we can ask? And he says, Certainly not. In the past, I was known to indulge in the spirits, but the temperance union has helped me break the filthy habit. The temp we can ask. And he says, Now I am the straight and narrow. Thanks to Mrs. Wright, bless her soul. I've been clean for almost a month. Or was it a week? Oh hell, I don't know. Temperance union we can ask. Temperance union. Mrs. Wright, same question. Trying to clean up New Reno. And a pretty good job with me. Dry as sand, huh? How many fingers am I holding up? Any stairs at our hand? Is that six? Or is that three? Very good. We can say both of those are right. Say, I had some other questions. Questions? Can't say I'm not too much about them. But asked away. Have you heard of Vault 13? Vault 13? No idea. Well, I mean, there's Vault City to the North East. That what you're looking for maybe? Say, uh, yes, we can say. Pardon me for asking. But do you happen to have a bottle on you? I need some for the services. And my throat's a little dry. And with that, he refuses to talk further with us, unless we give him some booze. I didn't have any at the time, so I said, I could go snag some if you want. And he says, now there's a fine idea. May you be thrice blessed. Yeah, I happen to know a place on the east side at the train station that sells the kind of holy water I need. Now, despite him saying that we don't have to get booze from the east side of town, we can bring him any booze. So coming back with booze in hand, we can get him to answer a question. It costs one booze for each question he answers. Say, Father Tully, I brought some hooch. Can we talk for a moment? And he says, eh, well, now, most certainly, and he takes the bottle. Don't usually touch this stuff, you know. Uh, uh, uh, uh. Sorry, what was I saying? And from here, we can ask him about each of the crime families. We may be going over some information we already know, but it's good to learn what each character in Nureno thinks about these crime bosses. You were talking about the family's salvatory, we can say. And he says, I was talking about the salvatories. And then he blinks, shrugs, but then drinks. Can't imagine what I was saying. Family is as silent as death. And you don't want to cross them either. You know why? No, we say. And he lumbars on drunkenly. Guys, they got weapons like fires from heaven. The weapons no one's ever seen before in Nureno or nowhere. Should beams of light cut a man into, leave him twitching in the dust. Should beams of light, you mean laser weapons? That's what I heard them call them lasers. But to me, the weapons are the devil's own. Fowl lightbringers. Tools meant for nothing, but death. Yes, of course, father, tools of the devil and all that. What do the other families think of the lightbringers? One of them lightbringers can kill a dozen men. Other families used to fight with the salvatories, but now no one messes with them. It's a piece of sorts. Good as long as it holds out, I suppose. Who's in charge of the salvatory, father? Louis, Louis, salvatory runs the shop. Creeple needs an oxygen tank to keep breathing. His lungs are messed up. Stays at the top floor of his establishment. Establishment. The stat. Place. Never comes out. Interesting. Can I ask you some other questions, father? And father Tilly glances at the now empty bottle in his hand. Say, don't mean to impose, friend, but would you happen to have another bottle of that fun vintage on you? All this hawk and is making me parched. And we can give them another bottle. And this time we'll ask him about the family bishop. Eh? The bishops write power hungaries. A lot of them. It's in the blood. Thing is, old John, bishop, is so concerned about taking over everything. He ain't taking care of business at home. Business at home, we can ask. Don't give two seconds to his wife and daughter. No wonder both of them have grown up wild. All comes out in the confessional, you know. Oh, we can say. And what does Mr. Bishops say in the confessional? Well, not much, but I hear things outside the confessional about bishop. Crafty devil. God iron balls, it has, must clink when he walks. I figure he's behind those raids on Vault City. You heard about those? Wait, the raids on Vault City? Yeah, we've heard about those. Stark asked us if we could track down those raiders, but wait a minute, Bishop is behind the raids? We'll feign ignorance to see if we can get more out of this guy. No, I've never heard about those we can say. And Father Tully ignores us. See, a few months back, old Bishop sends a caravan of Vault City, suggesting a marriage are convenient to in Vault City and the Rina. I trust they didn't reach an agreement we can say. And he says, now Vault City told him to stick it up his pooptube. So, not long after, Vault City starts getting raided. Fast, hard, and all the while. Right, there is Bishop. Telling him, I could help if you join with Nureno. So, Blackmail's Bishops gain me, we can say. A few raids, a few deaths, and Vault City might be ready to be friends with Nureno. Not too subtle, but effective. Well, what does Mrs. Bishops say in the confessional? Mostly what she'd expect from an neglected whitefeele, or the body whose curves could cure the blind. Mostly adultery. I mean, have you seen her rack? My word. Uggh. Starting to think that this father isn't very good at his job. Well, what does Bishop's daughter say in the confessional? We can ask. And he says, aw, sweet little Angela. Little Helian more like it. Girls got too much at evil in her bitches. Always flushing around, bending her father's help and popping herself full of jack. Jet, we can ask. Devil's blood, wickedness, foul secretion from the very teeth of evil. So, you don't like jet then? We can notice. Van Drung will be the death of us. Can't think of another drug. That does more damage than jet kills the mind and the body. Damn Mordinos. What was that about the Mordinos we can say? The Mordinos? And he holds up three fingers. There's two of them. And he holds his hand up high. Big Jesus. And then he holds his hand down low. And little Jesus. The father and the son. They control the drugs and the woman in Reno. Tell me a little about Big Jesus. We can ask. Is this? He is one bad mother. Look, look, look. Those in slaves, chat and hoars. Only person worse than him is his filthy son. His son we can ask. Little Jesus. Faster. He's like a prairie tick, sucking blood from his dad's work. Be trouble for all of Reno if he took charge. Couldn't hold it together. Drugs, hoars, all fall down. The Mordinos are the source of drugs and most of the horrors in Reno. Yes. Then he smiles and licks his lips. Horns. Then he begins stroking the neck of the bottle. Great. Father, about the drugs we can say. And he says, drugs? Yes. The drugs. Chat. Filthy chat. Do horrible things with it. Horrible. Reading. Distables. All for gold. What was that about reading? We can say. And it makes a walking motion with his two fingers. Chat leaves town. Ghosts to reading. God leaves reading. Ghosts to Mordino. Miners die. Mordinos lie. What was that you were saying about the stables? Mordinos have a farm outside of town. Keep slaves there. Test. Jet on them. Kills them and droves. Whew. Only the Mordinos know where the stables are. Next we can pay a mabeer to talk about the right family. Right eh? He smiles and wiggles his eyebrows. Let me tell you a little something about the rights. There are split bunch of horny drunks and stone fast puritons they are. Oh really we can ask? Those rights just keep squeezing out kids. All orville right must want to repopulate the world. Holden, Mrs. Wright can take the strain. And the things they say in the confessional. Oh really we can say? What does Mrs. Wright say in the confessional? At the right that blessed woman keeps me off the drink and on the straight and narrow. She can drive this sin out of you she can. But when the hell is that saying? About Mrs. Wright in the confessional. Oh right right. Well in the confessional she ain't got much to say. Mostly guilt about stepping on bugs or about enjoying sex with her hubby too much. I love guilt. Well what does orville rights say in the confessional? Oh orville? Well he's got a little guilt on his shoulders. See he promised the Mrs. he'd quit the alcohol biz. But he has a secret still in the train station behind the house. She'll beat him uglier than he is if she finds it. What does the Wright family control in New Reno we can ask? Never. Uh uh uh uh uh. They're the weakest um the families because they only brew the alkyhaw. Barely turn a scent they do. The other families buy alkyhaw off of them mostly out of pity. Now if we married Daven or Miria while visiting Modok we can get a legal divorce from Father Tully. This is the only way aside from killing them to get rid of them. We find an option to say Father Tully huh? Can you do divorces? Davel take me. Of course I can. Reno was the divorce capital even for the big one. This the Philly you want to break vows with? You bet says the chosen one. Can we start now? And he says well I've seen through a misplaced my sermon book with all the official stuff. Here's some hooch says the chosen one. Can you just make something up? Sure. Let me just polish this off get the fire going. All right then step up to the podium you two. All right listen up. By the power divested in me I divorce ye. You may now kick the bride. Drume. Whatever. And then he makes a sweeping motion. And I told you I loved you says Miria racing off. I tried to follow her but she just disappeared. Father Tully went to his bedroom and collapsed. Oh bless you my blab. Ranked too much of that blood of. Oh. Oh god. Yeah. Maybe I'll just lay down for a little while. Incidentally because with Myron in our party he's always saying let's get more women in this chicken crap outfit. If we travel with Miria he'll constantly say things like Mirias kind of cute. Can I well you know how about it or so you and Miria are you both free to see other people or yeah one more reason to get rid of the wife. So Mr. Wright has a secret still under the train station on the east side of town and Mr. Bishop is responsible for the raids on Vault City. I wonder if we can find any proof of that. We'll be back to talk with Father Tully again after we beat the primary quest in the game. Once we do he has a present for us but we'll cover that later. On the ground here to the lectern is the poor box. If we want to we can steal ten dollars but I don't think I have it in me. Moving into the room adjacent we find Father Tully's filthy bedroom. His bed is a mess and there's junk all over the floor and we find nothing of value in any of his containers. We have a few more things to do here on the west side before we turn in the quest for the son of a Tori clan but I am all out of time. Never fear we'll pick up with the rest of the west side of New Reno in tomorrow's episode. I publish many videos each and every week on my channel so if you don't want to miss it be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wider ray of colors. You can find them on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints etc. So if interest tips you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you tomorrow morning with the next episode in the story of New Reno.