It's not right. It's just not right. I didn't care about cities and civilizations. I didn't care about armies and war. I was just a courier. A simple mailman working for the Mahavi Express. I just wanted to deliver my parcel and go home. But then they took me. They knocked me out. I don't know why. They took my package. And when I finally awoke. You got what you're after. So pay up. You're crying in the rain, Pally. Guess it's waking up over here. Time to cash out. Will you get it over with? Maybe Khan's killed people without looking them in the face. But I ain't a thing, dig. You've made your last delivery, kid. Sorry you got twisted up in this scene. From where you're kneeling must seem like an 18-carat run of bad luck. Truth is, the game was rigged from the start. From this wasteland they say you are going. Do not hasten to beat me, I do. Just remember the new Vegas Valley. And the drifter that loved you so true. Have you so true? The first thing we see is a ceiling fan. You're awake. How about that? Where are we? Whoa, easy there. Easy. You've been out cold a couple of days now. This doctor, Doc Mitchell, seems like he saved our life. Don't know what magic he pulled off to heal a gunshot wound to the head, but I'm not complaining. After helping us find our bearings, he leads us to the exit. Here, these are yours. Was all you had on you when you was brought in. I hope you don't mind, but I gave the note a look. I thought it might help me find a next-of-kin, but it was just something about a platinum chip. Well, if you're heading back out there, you ought to have this. And then he gives us a parting gift. They call it a Pip Boy. I grew up in one of them vaults he made before the war. We all got one. Ain't much used to be now, but you might want such a thing after what you've been through. Note what note? Taking a look at it and this new Pip Boy he just gave us, it suddenly all comes back. Instructions. Deliver the package at the North entrance to the Vegas Strip by way of Freeside. An agent of the receptionist will meet you at the checkpoint, take possession of the package, and pay for the delivery. Bring the payment to Johnson Nash of the Mahave Express Agency in Prim. Bonus on completion, 250 caps. Manifest. This package contains one oversized poker chip composed of platinum. As the man in the checkered coat was killing us, he held up a poker chip. This must be the very same platinum chip we read about in this manifest. He took it from us and he killed us to keep us quiet. And with that we complete, ate that a kick in the head. We can now take the opportunity to ask Doc Mitchell if he knows anything about the man who shot us. I didn't see him or the men with him. You might ask around town though, it could be someone saw which way they was headed. Your best bet would probably be Trudy, the bartender at the saloon of the road. If anyone saw anything she didn't know about it. Who was it that rescued me? That'd be Victor. Curious Fah. He's sort of odd and I don't just mean because he's a robot. I couldn't tell you much about him. He's real friendly, don't get me wrong. You just get the sense that that ain't the whole picture. Just a feeling. He keeps to himself mostly. You want to know more about him, you'll have to ask him yourself. He has a shack on the southern edge of town. Tell me about yourself Doc. Well, I already told you I came from a vault. After that I was a traveling doctor for a spill. I seemed like a good idea at the time. Most folks out here ain't educated so people with medical know how are hard to come by. I found that I could help a lot of people with what I knew and that was alright with me. Eventually I went back and married my childhood sweetheart and that was the end of my traveling days. Didn't miss it none then. Still don't. You said earlier that you knew what it felt like to have something taken from you. What did you mean by that? Well, ain't we all right? That was a long time ago. I don't pay much mind anymore. We find out later that he was from Vault 21 and the thing that was taken from him was the vault itself. But we'll explore more about Vault 21 and the personal tragedy that brought Doc Mitchell to Good Springs in another video. Heading out the door we see a strange little robot thing rolling around on one wheel. Howdy partner. Might I say you're looking fit as a fiddle? Thanks for digging me out of that grave Victor. Don't mention it. I'm always ready to lend a helping hand to a stranger in need. Do you know who those men were who attacked me? I was out for a stroll that night when I heard the commotion up the old bone orchard. So it looked like a bunch of bad eggs so I lay low. Once they'd run off I dug you up to see if you were still kicking. Turns out you were. So I hold you off to the dock right quick. Can't say that I'm familiar with the rascals. Some of the fine folks in town not being able to help you out with that. How'd you end up in Good Springs? Close it into town oh 10, 15 years ago. Before that I. Hmm. I can't quite seem to recall. Odd. Anyway, it's a right piece from town and I reckon it's his final place to settle a zinny. Okay. I've never seen a robot like you before. I'm a secure atron. Rob goes security model 2060 B. I've never seen him. My brother's still in Victor says, howdy. All right, goodbye. Happy trails. Well, sounds like Victor's been here for quite some time. But what's a lonesome robot traveling the way it's all by himself doing in Good Springs? And why has he been here for years? Perhaps we can get more information from the townsfolk. Heading on over to the prospector saloon. We see an aged fellow sitting on a chair named Easy Pete. Howdy. What can Easy Pete do for you? You know anything about the people who attacked me? The one in the fancest suit seemed to be calling the shots, as much as I know. Other folks in town might know more. Word of advice though. If you ever catch up with him, watch out. The man's got cold eyes like a snake. Can't be trusted, I'd say. Cold eye like a snake, huh? I'll keep that in mind. Hey, do you know anything about Victor, the robot? The machine? Harmless. No matter what truth he says. He thinks it's hiding something. But I think it's just a broken down relic with no place to be. We can then head over to the general store. Inside we find the proprietor chat sitting around. You must be the one Doc Mitchell was patching up. The way I heard it, I didn't think you'd be walking out of that office. Hey, chat, you know anything about the people who attacked me? The leader was a new vagus type. Typical city boy. He had a bunch of great cons with him, probably hired guns. The great cons normally stay in their own territory way up northwest, on account of them being enemies with the NCR. Have you ever been to New Vegas? Twice. Both times they drank a lot of liquor and lost most of my caps at the card tables. In that order now that I think about it. If you ever get to New Vegas, be sure to visit Gamora. It's the best casino in the city. You won't regret it. Word of advice. Behave. Between the NCR military police and Mr. House's robots, you don't want to be causing trouble on the strip. I'd like to know more about Mr. House. I'm afraid I don't know much myself. Mr. House has got his own casino, Lucky 38, but nobody goes in or out except his robots. The other casino's follow Mr. House's rules. So I guess that makes him the leader of New Vegas. As far as I know, nobody's ever laid eyes on the guy. I think that robot who pulled you out of the dirt belongs to Mr. House. If Mr. House is looking after you, it's got to be a good thing, right? You mentioned Great Cons. Can you tell me anything more about the Great Cons? They're tough sons of bitches. Mean, but not crazy. They'll leave you alone unless you got something they want. The Great Cons deal in illegal camps. There's a good chance that most camps you come across were made by Great Cons. Hmm, sound like petty raiders to me. Now, as they Pete mentioned, something about Trudy, who manages the saloon, not having any trust for Victor. That seems curious to me, seeing as he's saved our lives and all heading on inside, we can ask Trudy about it. Well, you've been causing quite a stir. Glad I finally got to meet you. Welcome to the Prospector Saloon. I'm trying to track down the people who attacked me. No one thing about him? Not much. Other than there are a bunch of free-loaders who expected a few rounds on the house. I was able to get them to pay up, though. Of course, one of the Great Cons did knock my radio to the floor by accident. And it has been working since. Did my attackers say where they were going? They were having some kind of argument about it, but the guy in the checkered code kept shushing them. Sounded like they came in from the North through quarry junction. If that's the case, I can't say I blamed them for not wanting to go back. Was that? That whole area is overrun with the kind of critters that just get mad if you shoot them. Merchants avoid that whole stretch of I-15 like it's radioactive, which it could be for all I know. So from this I learned that I need to take another way to New Vegas, aside from I-15. So where were they headed? I didn't hear exactly, but the leader was talking about the strip. Fellow wants to get there and avoid the 15. He'd have to go east. Take Highway 93 up. Do you know about that robot who rescued me? I know that thing, as much as anyone else around here. It mostly keeps to itself, which is just fine by me. What does he actually do around here? Other than rolling around once in a while, it doesn't do anything useful as far as I can tell. I don't know why it took an interest in you, but I'd be careful. It's never helped anyone before. So you don't like him? It acts friendly enough, but I don't trust that whole cheerful cowboy act. I find it all very creepy. How long has he been here in Good Springs? It was here when I took over the saloon seven years ago. Some people have said it's owner lived here, but no one knows who it was. Interesting. Now we find Victor's home here in Good Springs. It's in the very back of the town, and it's got an old-world flag hanging from the front of the house. But we don't find anything inside, not even a whole lot of loot. No indication as to where he came from, what he's interested in, or more importantly, who he's working for. We can next go and explore the scene of the crime. Heading up the hill north of Good Springs, we find a fence-stuff cemetery called the Good Springs Cemetery, Victor likes to mosey on up here, and close to the northern edge of the cemetery next to a big, keep-out sign, we find what was to be our grave. Thankfully, Victor dug us out of this thing, but exploring the grave, we find some interesting clues. On the ground are some distinctive cigarette butts, a whole bunch of them. These may come in handy, so we're going to bring these with us, and it looks like the man in the checkered coat in his hired con guns, had a bit of a party. We find a lot of sunsets asperilla bottles just lying about. Near to one grave, we find the Good Springs Snow Globe. These are not only wonderful collectors items, but there is a rumor that a powerful, important person will pay a handsome price for these things, but with that, the town of Good Springs gives up all of her secrets. To track down the man in the checkered coat and get some answers from him, we need to head to the town of Prim. Remember, on the note that the doctor found on our body, we learned that we had been hired by the Mahave Express in Prim. To find Prim, we follow the road southeast of Good Springs, and then take the road south. Eventually, we see a roller coaster loom in the distance. As we get close, we find the gambling town of Prim, with its famous Vicki and Vance Casino, and the Bison Steve Hotel. Here, we also find the Mahave Express, the very place that hired us to become a courier. But first, we need to get rid of some escaped convicts who immediately open fire as we get close. These escaped convicts must be responsible for murdering a man named Daniel Wyand. We find his body lying against a wall next to the Mahave Express front door, and on his corpse is the Mahave Express delivery order, 4 of 6. We had 6 of 6. This guy had 4 of 6. Taking a look at the note in our inventory, we see that it reads extremely familiar to the one that we had. The only difference is that on his manifest is a pair of two oversized dies. We had a poker chip, he had some dies. I wonder if there was any significance to this. Now, when we arrive, the town's bulk are hiding in the nearby Vicki and Vance Casino. As we enter, a man named Johnson Nash takes us aside. I don't know what it was, brought you to Prim, youngster, but you might want to rethink your plans. Town's gone to hell. Do you know where I can find the courier office? Sure do. I run the courier office out of my shop. At least ways I did before things went to hell around here. Well, I'm a courier with the Mahave Express. Well, I don't got any work right now, sorry to see. I lost a package I was supposed to deliver. I'll tell you whatever I can. You have a delivery order you can show me. Yeah, here you go. What can you tell me about this job? Oh, you're talking about one of them packages. That job had strange written all over it, but we couldn't turn down the caps. Now, after we complete some quests here in Prim, which I laid out in my video on the town of Prim, Johnson Nash moves back into the Mahave Express. Let's go back to the Mahave Express and finish our conversation there. So you said that this package had strange written all over it. What was strange about it? At Cowboy Robot had us hire six couriers. Each was carrying something a little different. Paradise, chess piece, that kind of stuff. Last word I have in the office, it looked like payment had been received for the other five jobs. Guess it was just your chip that didn't make it. First deadbeat we hired to do the job, cancelled. Hope a storm from the divide, skin's in alive. Well, that's where you came in. The Cowboy Robot? Could he mean Victor? So Victor, through Johnson Nash, is the one who hired me? But my package, the platinum chip, is the only one to have gone astray. Even Daniel Wyand successfully delivered his fuzzy dice before he was murdered coming back to Prim to collect his bonus. While some men stole my package, a man in a checkered suit and some thugs, did they pass this way? Well, now that you've mentioned it, a few nights back, one of the townies was out scavenging for supplies. He said he saw a fellow with a daisy suit come through with some of them great con misfits. They was talking about a chip. One of those men shot me, I need to know the best way to get to them. Well, for that, your best bet is going to be talking to Deputy Bigel. Since they came to town, he was keeping a good bit of notes on him, and he was slinking around bison Steve when your pretty boy friend came through. He may have heard where they were going. Don't go getting yourself shot. Was that supposed to be a joke? Thanks, Nash. Now, when we arrive, Deputy Bigel is imprisoned inside the bison Steve. We find him tied up, and there are a couple of ways to get the information we need out of him. I don't suppose you came here to rescue me. I'd cross my fingers, but my hands are numb. You must be Deputy Bigel. Why, yes I am. It's a pleasure to meet you. I'm in a bit of a predicament here. I'd be most appreciative if you'd set me free. I hear you may have information on some cunns that came through here with a guy in a checkered suit. My good lady, I believe I may have some information that would prove useful. If you would just untie my hands, I'd be more than happy to share that information I have with you. We can then pass a speech check of 40 to say, you can tell me or you can rot in here. Well, you look to be a trustworthy sort. Okay, I'll tell you what I know. I overheard them saying that they're on their way to Novak. If you want to follow them, I strongly suggest that you follow the road through Nipton. There are a lot of dangerous things out in the desert, and you won't have me with you to protect you. As I need to stay here and keep prim safe. Or if we kill him or pickpocket him on his body, we find Deputy Bigel's journal, which gives us the same information. This is most unusual. The powder gangers have visitors today. I guess there's a first for everything. Now those tough looking fellows must be great cunns. I recognize those funny helmets and leather vests from stories I've heard. So what are they doing with that dapper gentleman who wears a checked suit? I wouldn't mind a suit like that. They're talking about heading south toward Nipton. Then west to Novak where they'll meet up with someone. I guess I could track them if I needed to, but the town of print needs me here to serve and protect. Oh my, I think I've been spotted. So the man in the daisy suit and his con thugs were headed to the town of Novak, and Deputy Bigel suggested we go there by way of the town of Nipton. We find Nipton by heading to east of Prim, but as we get close we see smoke rising from the town. As we approach, a man rushes forward. Yeah, who won the lottery? I did! Smell that air! Couldn't you just drink it like booze? What sort of lottery did you win? What lottery? The lottery! That's what lottery! Are you stupid? Only lottery that matters! Oh my god, smell that air! All right time for me to go. Later. Yeah, later dude. Now we find out later the Legion attacked this town. They named one man, let the other man live, who we just met, and then burned the rest on a pile of tires in the middle of the town. Heading north into the town, we see crosses. The Legion has crucified these men lining the main street with them. As we approach the town hall, the perpetrators of the satrocious crime come forward. Don't worry, I won't have you lash to a cross like the rest of these degenerates. It's useful that you happen by. I want you to witness the fate of the town of Nipton, to memorize every detail. And then, when you move on, I want you to teach everyone you meet the lesson that Kaisar's Legion taught here. Especially in A&CR troops you run across. What lessons did you teach here? Where to begin? That they are weak, and we are strong? This much was known already. But the depths of their moral sickness, their dissolution, Nipton serves as the perfect object lesson. What exactly happened here? Nipton was a wicked place, debased and corrupt. It served all comers, so long as they paid. Profligate troops, powder gangers, men of the Legion, such as myself. The people here didn't care. It was a town of whores. For a pittance, the town agreed to lead those that had sheltered into a trap. Only when I sprang it did they realize they were caught inside it too. You captured everyone? Yes, and heard of them to the center of town. I told them their sins, the foremost being disloyalty. I told them they were legionaries or disloyal, some are punished, the others made to watch. And I announced the lottery. Each clutched his ticket, hoping it would set him free. Each did nothing. Even when loved ones were dragged away to be killed. Vulpezin cool to leave by telling us that there will be more lessons. But we do have the option to teach these guys a lesson of our own. Killing Vulpezin cool to makes us hostile with the Legion. And from now on we get attacked by them in random encounters. It also changes one event that happens later, but we'll talk about that when we get to New Vegas. However, there is one way to repair our standing with the Legion, which we will cover soon. But to continue our journey to find the man in the checkered coat, we need to pass through Nipton and follow the road until it winds south. Eventually we see a large T-Rex dinosaur looming in the distance. At last we finally arrive at the town of Novak, and we find that this dinosaur must have been a pre-war tourist attraction to our roadside motel. As we get close we can admire the stature of this statue. And then we see Victor. Well, butter my button call me a biscuit if it ain't my old friend from Good Springs. What are you doing in Novak? Don't rightly know. I just got the notion to make my way to New Vegas. Back in our find out when I get there. It's quite a coincidence, a meeting like this. Seeing how this is the only road around. I'd be a sight more surprised if we didn't run into each other from time to time. So, wait a minute, I'm confused. Was it you who told me that the men who jumped me were headed this way? No, don't believe I did. But you might ask around. Novak folks usually see anyone traveling this way. Look, this is getting a little too creepy for me. Just out of my way, robot. I'll let that slide see in as high you got a mindful of vengeance for that no good pole cannon hole. Victor goes on his merry way and we can head inside the front desk office to this hotel. To speak with the proprietor, a genie may Crawford. Well, welcome to you. You look tired from the road. Want it you relax, sis Bell. Let this fine town take care of you. I'm looking for a man in a checkered coat. Have you seen anyone like that? Well, he might have been wearing a fancy outfit. But he wasn't any kind of gentleman to me. Had his nose stuck so high in the air you couldn't see it above the clouds. City folk. They always think they deserve better than what they got. Those hoodlums he was with seemed to know many for some reason. He's our daytime sniper up in the dinosaurs mouth. So the great cons knew the sniper that works here at Novak. Now the town of Novak has a tragic story which I covered in my video called Boone's Agony. I encourage you to watch it if you want to cry. But to continue on with our sleuthing, we head inside the dyno-de-lite shop and climb the stairs to the sniper's roost inside the dinosaur's mouth. What's going on man? I'm looking for a man in a checkered coat. Sure I know him. What do you want with him? I have a score to settle with him. Doesn't surprise me. You guys seem like he'd do whatever it takes to get what he wants. Probably makes a lot of enemies. Well listen, I can definitely help you find him, but I've got problems of my own. Maybe we can do a trade. You need my help. There's something I need too. Mani Vargas then goes on to tell us a tale of scavengers and ghouls and sends us on a mission to clear the nearby RepCon test site. I covered that in a recent video so I won't do so here. But once we clear that place we can come back to Mani Vargas and say that we completed our task. Really? Unbelievable man. I knew that wasn't going to be easy, but I had a good feeling about you. It looked like you've been through a lot. Now, about the man I'm looking for. Okay, I'll tell you everything I know, like I promised. The guy you're looking for, Benny. He was traveling with some members from my old gang. They were going to Boulder City. Where's Boulder City? It's straight up Route 93 from here. Just keep following the road north. Any idea why they went that way? No clue. I know Benny hadn't paid up yet. Maybe that was where they were supposed to get square. Thanks, Mani, that's all I needed to know. Hope that helps. I owed you. So at last, the man in the checkered coat has a name. Benny, he and his great Khan thugs went north towards a place called Boulder City. We follow the road north from Novak for quite some time, and along the way we pass a number of sites, including Hellius I. Eventually, we reach an intersection, and we see a big sign, Boulder City, Hoover Dam, and Lake Mead to the right. Turning right, we can take this road for quite some time. It eventually turns southeast. Just outside is a big propaganda poster. Don't wait another damn minute. Visit Hoover Dam today. This has been graffited by the NCR Rangers, give them hell, and NCR. And at last, we discover the town of Boulder City. As we get closer, we see that most of this place is in ruins. We see one building standing, the Big Horn Saloon. And just outside is some sort of carved monument. Here we find Private Kalowski, apparently paying his respects. You here to pay your respects to? What is this memorial? It commemorates the Battle of Hoover Dam. The Rangers lure the best of Caesar's Legion into Boulder City, then blew the whole town up. The NCR still lost a bunch of troops in the fighting, though. My older brother sacrificed himself, so they could evacuate some of the wounded. Well, I'm sorry to hear that. Don't worry about it. Were you normally stationed? Can't, McCarran, but I'm unleaved at the moment, heading back to California to see my folks. I'm supposed to join up with a caravan that's heading that way up at the 188. But they're not due to arrive for a while yet. Now, we can be absolutely awful. And at any time, we can pull out our weapon and deface this monument. What the fuck are you doing? My brother died at the Battle of Hoover Dam. You're desecrating a war memorial. We can pass a 30-speed check to say, My apologies. It was rude and disrespectful of me to do that. All right. Apology accepted. Don't let it happen again. Or we can be downright awful and say, You're a little bitch, and your brother was too. Oh, no, it's on. He turns hostile, but no one else in the town does. But we just killed a man who was standing here, paying respects to his dead brother. I can't abide by that, so reloading a previous save, we can head in to the big horn salooned. Inside, we don't really find any patrons. The place is large, but more or less empty. Standing by the counter is a man named Ike. A customer. How many people come into Boulder City these days? Tell me about Boulder City. Most of the town is rubble, destroyed during the Battle of Hoover Dam. The only other thing around here is the concrete mixing yard. What's the concrete used for? The NCR has been constructing bunkers up and down the river. From what I've heard, it's a little late for that. Travelers over at the 188, just up the road, said that the Legion is overrun a couple of towns to the south. Where does the concrete come from? Most of the limestone comes from quarry junction out west, but I hear some death claws overran the quarry. With no work to be had, all the workers around here have wandered off. I'm the only one left in town. And that's really all he has to tell us. We get a few places marked on our map. We find a door behind the bar, but we have to sneak inside here we find a bunch of gear. But really nothing worth stealing. Heading back outside we can explore this ruin. And it is a disaster. The only sign of life is smoke coming from the east. Along the way we see a bunch of skeletons littering the ground, and they seem to be leading towards one building in particular. Here we find two skeletons right outside the doorstep, and heading up the stairs, one, and at the top of the stairs, another, and then the doorway, yet another. In this top floor we find bodies, bodies, more bodies, piled upon bodies. Towards the window we find a service rifle on the ground, a Ranger hat, and a holotape, Ranger holodisk. We're cut off from the rest of the platoon, and there are legionaries all over the place. There's no chance we can get out of here before they blow the town, so we're gonna hold out against them as long as we can. If anyone ever gets this, I'd like to make sure that Private Jeffrey Hui and Corporal Marcus Christensen are commended for their valor and sacrifice. Both have appelled the ideals and honor of the New California Republic with distinction. Ranger Teresa Lutz out. So six years ago in 2277, the New California Republic defeated the Legion by luring them into this town and then blowing up the town, these Rangers. Sacrifice themselves by providing fire that kept the Legion pinned in this town, knowing that they would soon die to NCR bombardment. Every single skeleton lying here belonged to a man or a woman who was a hero of the NCR, and yet here they lie, six years later, without being given a proper burial. Just southwest of here we find the source of that fire we saw earlier. Near a large ruined portion of the town, we find a man named Lieutenant Monroe, standing by a ham radio. We've got a situation with some great cons right now. The brass of McCarran has ordered me to lock down the ruins until it's been resolved. Great cons, you say. What's going on with the Great cons? One of my patrols was on its way back from Novak when it came under fire from the Great cons. They radioed for reinforcements, but instead of waiting for us, they chased the cons into the ruins where they were called in a crossfire. No deaths, but not all the squad got out. The cons have private acumen and private Gilbert as hostages. So these great cons just opened fire on the NCR? These guys sound like geniuses. Look, these great cons might have something of mine, a platinum chip. Once the great cons have been killed or captured, you're welcome to retrieve any property they've taken from you. Uh, well what are you going to do about the NCR hostages? Acceptable casualties I've been told. I don't like it, but the brass has the reasons. What? No, look, I could sneak in there and try to get your people out. As soon as you free them, the rest of my squad will move in and provide covering fire. If we choose this option, we have to open a door to the Boulder City ruins. We find ourselves surrounded by rubble. Ruined concrete structures that were destroyed once in the nuclear apocalypse, and then again by the NCR, here we see a number of NCR soldiers crouched down, pointing their guns at a partially ruined building to the southwest. Here we find the great cons, and they have choice words for Benny. Fuck, Benny. Who may compare for stabin' us in the back? He may have stabbed you in the back, but at least he didn't shoot you in the head. Inside the building to the southeast, we find our great cons holding two NCR troopers hostage. Man, I'm sick of this place. Can't wait to get back to Red Rock. On the top floor, we find a sniper leaning out of a window, and there are more great cons hiding behind cars and in bus stops just outside. There is a tiny bit of loot we can find in Boulder City if we explore all of these ruins. But to get these captive zout, we can sneak behind this building and unlock a very easy locked door. If we're trying to do this with stealth, this is one way that we can assassinate the guards before releasing the hostages. But if at any time the guards catch us releasing these hostages, they immediately turn hostile. The NCR troopers run for cover, but it's possible for them to get killed in the shootout. Thankfully, however, most of these great cons focus all of their attention on the career. Heading outside, we can watch private Gilbert and private Ackerman run to safety. Thanks for the rest, Jill. Thanks for getting me out of there. I owe you one. Alternatively, we can tell Lieutenant Monroe that we'd rather try negotiations instead. Normally, I'd turn you down since I have no idea who you are, but considering that the hostages are as good as dead when we attack. Alright, I'm going to give you a chance to talk to the great cons. Their leader is a man named Jessup. If we hear shooting will be coming in, but it'll probably be too late for you. Don't worry about me. I can handle myself in a fight. Good luck. Heading back inside, we find a door to the southwest. This leads to a great con hideout, and inside we see a familiar face. What the hell? You're that courier Benny wasted back in Good Springs. You're supposed to be dead. This guy Jessup was the great con standing to the left of Benny as he murdered us in cold blood. With this in mind, we can simply respond by saying, not quite. When I kill you, however, the job will be done right. You think you can take me, Puck? In which case, the two remaining great cons in this room turn hostile. On Jessup's corpse, we find two important clues that will help us find Benny later. The first is a distinctive cigarette lighter, which must have belonged to Benny, and the second is a chairman job offer. Thought you'd like to know that one of the chairman bigwigs from the tops is looking to hire a muscle for a job out by Good Springs. I don't know what it's about though. The details are all hush hush. The pay seems too could be true, but I figured I'd pass the info your way in case it's all on the level. Let me know and I'll put you in contact with this Benny fellow. With that, we complete the quest. They went that way, and we start the quest, a ringeting ding. We find another great con corpse in the hallway to the south. Here lies McMurphy. The con who was standing to the right of Benny as he murdered us, he must have got killed after they attacked the NCR. However, there is a peaceful way to resolve this. Instead of goading Jessup into battle, we can respond by saying, I'm a ghost here to haunt you. Alright, quit fucking around, he survived and you tracked us down. Or we can say, yeah, I got better. And here I thought us great cons were tough to kill. So, what happens now? Or we can say, well, I'm not dead, and I believe you have something of mine. Yeah, about that. Where's the platinum chip? Don't have it, Benny stole it. Right before he stabbed us in the back, he's probably back at the strip by now laughing at me. And when that we complete, they went that way, and we begin a ringeting ding. We now know the location of Benny. He's at the strip. But Jessup, I want more answers. Yeah, I'm what? What can you tell me about Benny? He's one of the chairman, big shots around the top casino in New Vegas. The friend from the city contacted me with info on a big job. I should have known that the caps were too good to be true, but there was still no way I could pass up the chance. Why did Benny betray you? He's a snake, that's why. He noticed the rest of the pay for the job, so maybe he didn't want to pay up. What do you know about the platinum chip? Just a big fancy poker chip, as far as I know. Don't know why anyone would make one out of platinum though. So, why don't you guys just shoot your way out of here? I'm not afraid of a gunfight, and I'd rather get back to Red Rock without a few extra holes in me if I can help it. Let's talk about settling things between you and the NCR. What's the negotiate? The NCR backs off, we walk out of here and nobody gets hurt. I'm willing to hear out other suggestions. We'd try to bribe our way out, but seeing as how Benny didn't pay us yet, that won't happen. Any chance you're willing to surrender? And face NCR justice? No thanks. I'd rather not spend the next 10 years doing hard labor. With this option, we need to head outside and bribe Lieutenant Monroe to leave the cons alone. How are the negotiations with the great cons going? Now, at this point, we can betray the cons and encourage the NCR to take him out. I'm unable to work out a deal, the great cons are all yours. It was worth a try. I'll have to proceed with the attack as ordered then. In which case the NCR moves upon the cons and we can join in if we go... Or we can go ahead with the bribe and say, how much money would it take for you to let the other way while the great cons left? You mean just let them go? How would I explain this to my superiors? Lieutenant Moore responds the same way to both of these options. We can say, yes or no, that's all I want to hear. Or look at it this way. Nobody dies. 500 caps would go a long way for some soldiers' families. We can pass a barter check to say 400 caps as a less suspicious amount. You have enough trouble here as it is. That makes sense, and it's still more than these troopers seen a month. Here are the caps. This doesn't feel quite right, but it resolves things. It gets my troopers back in one piece. Which is this option, the NCR and the cons walk away. Or, back inside the great con hideout, we can pass a 45 speech check to say, free the hostages now, and I'll have the NCR escort you out of their territory. I can't believe I'm doing this. But alright, the hostages can go. The NCR better keep their under the deal though. Here, a souvenir for you. It's Benny's lighter. Shove it up his ass when you catch up with him. We then have to go back to Lieutenant Monroe to tell him the good news. I'm glad you're able to get my people freed, but there's a new problem. I just got orders to take out the great cons. Hostages are not. Great, more complications, just what I need. My hands are tied. We can betray the cons again and say go for it. The cons have nowhere to run. You cut a deal with the cons? Damn it. Attacking them now doesn't feel right, but orders or orders. Which case the NCR again moves on the cons. The ruins of Boulder City break out into gunfire. Or we can say, the great cons let the hostages go in exchange for their own freedom. I can't go against orders. Can I? If we choose, you're the officer here, you make the call. I don't like it, but orders or orders. He goes ahead with the attack. But if we choose, if you have any integrity, then you'll honor the deal. You're right. The great cons are free to go. We get a big boost of both NCR and Great Con fame. And now that the matter is resolved, we can talk with Lieutenant Monroe to learn a little bit more about the Great Cons. They're an outlaw group primarily trafficking in drugs and other contraband. They usually stay out of NCR territory though. I keep hearing about the Battle of Hoover Dam that happened six years ago. Can you tell me a little bit about Hoover Dam? It's one of the biggest sources of electrical power in the region. So the NCRs fortified the place pretty heavily. When President Kimball shows up on his inspection tour, I'm sure he'll be confident that the dam safe and secure. Wait, wait, wait. The President of the NCR is coming to Hoover Dam? It's probably just a political thing. You know, give a few speeches, shake hands with the troops. Who's morale? I met a guy earlier who said that he was stationed at Camp McCarran. Can you tell me where I can find McCarran? Camp McCarran is the headquarters for the NCR military in this region. It occupies the old airport next to New Vegas. With that, we complete Boulder City showdown, and the NCR leave the area. Heading inside the ruins of the city, we can watch the Great Cons walk to Red Rock Canyon peacefully. Now which one of these choices was the most moral? Well, honestly, any of them can be depending upon your point of view. After all, we learned that these Great Cons opened fire unprovoked upon an NCR patrol. Now, they have reason for doing this. They're still upset about the bitter springs massacre. I covered the bitter springs massacre in my video about Boone's Agony. If you'd like to learn more about it. But the Great Cons are still largely at fault for what happened at bitter springs, mainly in part to the behavior they exhibited by firing on these NCR troopers. They're aggressive unscrupulous raiders half the time. The Great Cons are in this interesting transition state, where they have been defeated in battle so often that they have become demoralized to the point where they're considering turning over a new leaf. But not yet. Because they have the potential to turn over a new leaf, my choice is to let the Great Cons go because we gained positive reputation with both factions, which is going to make things easier when we talk with Papa Con later at Red Rock Canyon. Now, Ike, the bartender, told us about the big concrete processing plant nearby, which was one of the sole reasons the NCR was here to begin with. We can head on over to explore it. We don't find much here. But if we go up one of the big ramps to the top of the plant, we find a big duffel bag filled with cash on our way back down. Fancy meeting in here, friend. What's, how did you get here? Just rolling along on my spurs. Looks like I just might make it the new Vegas after all. So, did you see what happened in there? Yep. Gets it down to you and fancy pants. I wouldn't worry about him. He looks all hat and no cattle if you ask me. Did you see Benny come this way? Fancy pants? No, I ain't seen hiding the hair of him since the Dustlin' Good Springs. I'm sure you're in back to the soft living in the new Vegas though. Well, despite everything, it's good to see you again, Victor. Yep. This is getting the mighty bears in. People gonna start to talk. Well, but look, I just don't like being followed, robot. Now, now, they ain't my fault. Dorothy and the 10-man happen to be on the same yellow stripe road, is it? Another Wizard of Oz, our friends. Hmm. Goodbye, Victor. Look me up when you get the new Vegas. I'll buy the first round. And with that, he speeds off towards New Vegas. And now we can too. We learned everything we needed from the cons. The man who tried to murder us is Benny. He's one of the big leaders of the New Vegas gang called the Chairman. They occupy the top's casino, so we need to go to New Vegas, find the tops, and confront Benny there. And so we look to the northwest. We see the gleaming spire of the Lucky 38, towering high above all other casinos in New Vegas. It makes a conspicuous landmark. We can follow it through the desert, through the rocks, through the ruins, and through the slums until we finally arrive at a wall. New Vegas is hiding behind this wall to get to Sin City. We need to travel through the slums of New Vegas called Freeside. We'll con our way through Freeside, and Mozy through the gates to New Vegas to confront Benny in our next episode. Thanks for watching episode 1 Ladies and Gentlemen. As you can see, I'm trying something new. I typically do big high production series like these on the DLCs of Fallout 3, Fallout New Vegas, and Fallout 4, but I wanted to take a moment to spend some attention on the primary plots of all three games. Now with the DLC series I do, I tend to knock out the entire DLC in a few days to a week, depending upon how long the DLC is. But if I were to try to do that with this series, I would be focusing on one game for months. So instead, I'm gonna separate these episodes. I want to do a new Vegas episode every day. I'll publish a variety of content like you're used to, but every now and then, I'll release a new episode in this big main story series. If you liked what you saw, and you're eager to see me do this with Fallout 3 and Fallout 4, let me know in the comments section below. I publish a new lore video six days a week on a wide range of topics spanning all of the games. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider supporting me on Patreon. Patreon recently made an unpopular change to their pricing scheme, but a few days ago they reversed course. There are now no longer any extra fees for supporting your favorite creators on Patreon. So if you used to be a Patreon subscriber but you backed out because of those fees, I encourage you to check on back. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you tomorrow morning bright and early with a brand new video.