In our last video, we took care of the raiders that had been harassing Vault City after discovering their location inside John Bishop's safe. It was then we realized that the Bishop family had hired mercenaries to pose as raiders to attack Vault City until Vault City joined up with the NCR. That's not gonna happen now. On our way back to New Reno, we were contacted by Hakunin. Aroyo is in desperate need. We've got to finish up our business at New Reno so we can continue our search for the Geck. But I'm not one to leave things unfinished. We still have one family left to meet at New Reno and that's the right family who occupy the eastern side of town. Heading east from the Shark Club, we arrive on a street going between two large buildings. The top building is a pre-war train station. We see the train tracks going by along the northern side. Looks like there was an outside seating restaurant or a bar attached to the building. Heading inside we can see what the place is now. We find a door to a small room in the southwestern corner of the train station inside we find a young woman. Better take off. No offense, she says. But dad doesn't like tribals much. That's right. We remember hearing the gossip from the other families that the right family bred like rabbits. This must be one of their daughters. Next to her must be one of her brothers. Just keep your distance, he says. If you've got business, do it then get out. Friendly bunch these rides. There's a desk in the middle of the room. If we sneak by to loot it, inside we find shotgun shells and some money. Then inspecting the bookcase. If we sneak up and loot it, we find some booze and beer. Going through the eastern door, we arrive at the train station waiting area. And look at all these people. These must all be the right children. They share a lot of the same dialogue. One of the boys says, if you're looking for alcohol, head on over to the train station and the north part of town. We don't sell it here. We are at the train station, so this must just be recycled dialogue. But then we see a man wearing blue pants. Yeah, he says. Who are you, we can say? And he says, I'm Chris. Chris right. Of the family rights. Glad you asked. Family right. Who's that we can ask? And he says, you ain't heard of the family right? Yeah, must have been out in the desert too long. Family right is the biggest crime family in Reno. We're gonna rule this city. But we know better than that. Actually, the chosen one can say, I got the impression they were one of the weakest of the families. I mean, they only deal in alcohol. They have no casino or chem trade. And their numbers are much less than other families. That a joke says Chris. If so, damn well, miss the funny mark by a mile. You trying to start something with family right? Turning this entire family hostile is not productive, so instead we'll say, oh no, I'm sorry. I didn't mean it like that. Well, it sounds like the family right holds all the cards, we can say. Trying to butter this guy up. Are they hiring? And he says, well, I mean, the right family, my family might have an opening. I ain't promise and nothing. But go to the mansion south of here. Find my brother Keith and tell him I sent you. Nams Chris. Chris right. We'll go south to the mansion in a minute. First, we can head through the northern door. We're upon we find a staircase. Heading down to the basement, we find the right family's brewing stills. The vats work tirelessly going thummm. And we learn that the right family employs slaves. Talking with one of them, once you learn your new master's needs, the beatings become less frequent, he says. We can loot each of the tables down here for booze. If we do, we walk away with quite a stash. And the family doesn't seem to mind. Master is good. He does not beat me often. If we explore behind some barrels in the southeastern corner, we find a cooler. And inside, a whole bunch of tools, more rubber boots, and a cat's paw magazine. Not as if we can get some work from this family. Heading south, we see a bunch of the right's younger children playing in the dirt by a truck. These kids are key to assassinating the leader of the right family in a covert silent way. But we'll tackle that in a bit. Heading towards the mansion, we can walk past the guards. I'm watching you. So you watch what you do here. Inside, we arrive in a large living room. The living room is flanked on either side by a series of bedrooms. And the southwestern most one, we find a young man. Yeah, better not have brought any kems, or else dad will kill you. Then I'll kill you, he says. Looks like this family is really sensitive to kems. In one of the bookshelves, we find a shotgun, some shotgun shells, and a lighter. And in the southern dresser, we find a leather jacket, a 10 millimeter pistol, 10 millimeter ammunition, and some money. In the room directly above us, we find one of the daughters and a young boy, the lad stops and looks at you. Hey there, little girl, we can say. Kyle's got the squirts, he says. Really? What else we can ask? Mike and Marie sitting in a tree, K-I-S-S-I-N-G. Which becomes really disturbing when we remember that everyone here is related to each other. We can ask this kid the same question over and over again, and he has a number of responses. Mommy's down by the church again. Kyle drinks his own pee. Our family is the best. Daddy says we got to be careful when we go outside. I saw Mikey kissing Marie Mardino. Okay, it was a girl from another family. Well, that's good. He sticks out his tongue. Whoopie head, whoopie head. Daddy said he'd whip us if he ever cut us taking jet. I never see Christopher anymore. Milk, milk lemonade around the corner fudge is made. You're it. Mommy's been really sad since my brother Richie died. Oh no, one of the brothers died? You got cooties. He's got the whole world. And his aunt's got the whole world. And his aunt's. I want to be a whore when I grow up. Daddy says we need more of them. What the heck, man? What? I wish Christopher would play with me. Daddy'll whip us if we sneak out again. Father Tully is funny when he can't walk straight. Yeah, we met good old father Tully. He's quite the character. Mommy was crying the other day. I think it's because what happened to my brother Richie. Land Rover, Land Rover, sent Kyle on over. Shriek! Uncle Nick says cussing isn't necessary. Uncle Nick needs to get out more. Wanna play tribals and slavers? I miss my brother Richie. He died because he took too much jet. Oh, so that's how Richie died. And I suppose that explains why their father is so opposed to Kim's. I made a poo poo. Thanks. Daddy's doing business again. Daddy's been really mad since my brother Richie died. Wow, that was a surprisingly informative conversation. Heading out, we can move into the next room above this one. It's empty, but we can loot the containers. In the left bookshelf, we find money and a knife, and the right one is empty. Then, in the northwestern room, we find a woman by herself. We can examine these containers first, and in the dresser we find some leather armor, more rubber boots and a knife, and in the bookshelf to the left, we find a 10-millimeter pistol, some money and a lighter. Talking with the woman, we learned that this is Mrs. Wright. Mrs. Wright jumps. Oh my, you gave me such a fright. She squents at us. Well, hello again. It was funny. It's the first time we've talked. Who are you, we can say? She says me, why I'm Mrs. Ethel Wright, head of the Temperance Union, Hiranurino. She studies us, and who am I to you be? Temperance Union, we can ask. And she says, oh my, you're a tribal, aren't you? Your accent gave it away. She raises her voice and starts speaking slowly. Now, may I be the first to welcome you to our city. What you say? Me, Simbur tribeor, no understand I you are. I said, let me. She points to herself, welcome you. She points to us, too. And she just cheers to the city all around her. City of lights. Instead of leaving, we can say, woman, I am neither deaf nor stupid. I can understand you quite well without you raising your voice. Oh, she says, excuse me, she seems startled. Partens, partens, it's just that I thought, well, never mind. Let's put that all behind us. What can I do for you? I had some questions about Nureno, we can say. And she says, so what are these questions you have? You were saying about the temperance union before, we can again ask. And she says, why yes? And she wags her finger at us. Nureno is a beautiful city. But there is sin here, much of which can be traced back to the evils of alcohol. Or as you tribesmen call it, and she pauses dramatically, fire water. Ignoring that for now, we can say yes. But what about this temperance union? She just rambles on. The temperance union was established to help people turn away from the poison of drink, and turn towards more hard-working pursuits. Oh, we can say, well, how about Nureno can't exist on gambling and alcohol and prostitution and expect to survive? Oh, no, she says. Not while Ethel Wright is at the hell, it won't. No, siri! Who was all in your organization we can ask? And she thinks for a moment. Well, good father tolly for one. Good father tolly whom we've met. Member of the temperance union. Okay, I believe it. Uh-huh, the chosen one can say, father tolly is the worst consumer of fire water that I've ever seen. I almost got drunk just from the vapors. Now, you listen here, she says, with a frown. I'm not going to tolerate that kind of slander. The good father has had his struggles with alcohol, but through the help of the union, he has fought for his soul and triumphed. It's not slander, we can say. It's just that the great spiritual leader of Nureno is about as healthy as, well, the city itself. Hoomph! She says, of all the grassrootsness. If you see me again, you had best simply passed by in silence. That's the plan, we can say. But if we choose this path, she refuses to talk with us ever again. Exploring the rest of her dialogue, we can say, but people like gambling, drinking, and horing, says the chosen one. I know I do. She looks shocked. Surely you are mistaken. Even a primitive tribal, such as herself, can't seriously mean that by the balls of the sky spirits, yes, says the chosen one. I, myself, like to indulge in all three of those sins. Nothing like a little communal love, some gambling, and rounding off the day with a few jugs of fermented mayor's milk. That's what makes being a tribesman so great. By Richard Milhausenix and his mother, says Ethel, I don't know what practices you tribes people follow in your dens of iniquity, but in Nureno, things are changing. We are a civilized people. And the chosen one can point out, we have none of the evils you mention in my village. And maybe we could teach you civilized people some things. But if we choose this path, she again shuts down dialogue, and refuses to talk with us anymore. So instead of purposefully torquing her off, we can focus on her family. Going back, we can say, your Richard's mother, right? I heard he passed away recently, and her smile dies. Yes, my son Richard, he... Yes, he left us much too soon. I... Yes, she looks at her hands. I... But the chosen one can press on. I heard it was a jet overdose. Is that right, we can say? And her jaw tightens. That filthy poison. I thought that I'd taught him to stay away from that stuff. And then, can you tell me where he might have gotten the jet we can say? I don't know, she says. And her hands clench into fists. They sell that poison on every corner here in New Reno. Everywhere you go, they're peddling it. Do you know any specific dealers we can ask? And she says not by name. They know enough to run when they see me coming. But they cluster like flies along Virgin Street, at the front of town, and outside the casinos. Alright, so it looks like we need to follow up with some of the jet dealers in town to see which of them sold jet to young Richard. Your husband's head of family right, correct? We can ask. And she says, why yes? Yes, he is. And she squinsett us again. I'm sorry. Do you know my husband? Not personally, we can say. But I know the rights control, the distribution of alcohol in New Reno. And she frowns. Now, what is this foolishness you're speaking of? Alcohol distribution in New Reno? I know my husband is inclined to drink. But he is breaking the habit. Ethel, we can say. In case you hadn't noticed, your husband is the leader of a crime family that sells alcohol to all of New Reno. Tossin' one back now and then is perhaps the least of his crimes. Why? My goodness, she says, of all the cheek. And she takes a deep breath. Well, that is a very serious accusation, young man. I realize that, man, but she puffs up. Perhaps it is standard practice in your tribes to slander others in public. But here in New Reno, you have some sand coming up to me in public and speaking ill of my husband. Look, all I'm saying is, no, you luck. It's no secret that in the past, my husband had a private still in the city. Nonetheless, he swore it was for his own use only. And at my request, he has dismantled it. But we've been to the basement of the train station and we know that that's not true. So we can say, oh really? Well, maybe you furthermore, she continues. He has resolved to help me and any other unfortunate reliant on alcohol. Break the habit. Shameful. To even suggest my husband was selling the alcohol to others is. And we can say, look, if you don't believe me, check out the Reno train station. You'll see what I mean. She frowns and puts her hands on her hips. I will look into what you can rest assured. And if I find that you are wrong, you had best leave this town. Meet me at the church tomorrow morning and we will speak again. Alright, Mrs. Wright, I will. See you then, we can say. And with that, she marches off to stew about things for a bit. Well, what a lovely gem she turned out to be. Can't wait to meet the rest of this family. Moving out and into the kitchen, we see more Wright children milling about. Don't even think about causing any trouble, one says. We write out number you by, uh, by a lot. Where are you from? It's in Yorker and around here in a while, another says. Moving into the dining room, we see more Wright children and a number of containers, most of which are too close to the kids' dilute without turning everyone hostile. And one, we find a stack of ammunition and a stem pack. And then we can talk with the guy holding the gun in the middle of the dining room. I don't know you, he says. My dad don't know you. And if you don't start explaining, it ain't gonna matter. Who were you, we can ask. I'm Keith Wright, he says of the Wright family. Now you're gonna tell me what you're doing here. Well, what is this place, we can say? And he says this is the family Wright house. Now, you're gonna tell me what you're doing here? Well, I'm looking for a job. Is family right hiring? And he says now we don't hire muscle like the other families. At least not now, you better get. But then we can say, look, Chris sent me by. Chris, your brother, we talked to him at the train station, is family Wright hiring? And he says, Chris sent you, huh? That's right, we can say. He said you might have some work for me. And hold on, says Keith, he knocks on the door behind him. Pa! He sticks his head in, there's some mumbling. Then he comes back and nods at the door. You can go in, but watch out. Dad's in a pissy mood. Oh, thanks, we can say. Hadn't inside, we can talk with Orville Wright. Rinkles cover this man's face. It looks like any expression other than a scowl is foreign to him. Only a few brown hairs are left in his thick gray hair. Start talking, tribal. Who are you? And what do you want? The name's Oxhorn. I'm interested in a job. No crap, any sniers. Well, please to meet you. Oxhorn, glad you stopped by. Damn neighborly of you. His sneer crumbles into a frown. Looking for work in family Wright, huh? Yes, I so happens my family is family Wright. Blood thicker than water and all, and he scowls. What makes you think I'd want tribal trash like you and my family? I got all the hitmen I need. Give me a test then, we can say. Let me prove myself. He studies us for a moment. All right. Maybe you're not being in the family could be a good thing. And his scowl fades. You got children? Not to my knowledge, we can say. One of my sons. My boy Richard passed away recently. Cam overdose. Jet. How can I help, we can say. I want to know what dealer gave that crap to Richard and forced him to take it. Every time I send my boys to find out they turn up nothing. Maybe someone who went got right blood could get some answers. Uh, they forced him to take it, we can say. And Orville Wright's face turns red. My boys are clean. And they notice they stay away from that stuff. Or I'll kill them. Then suddenly Richie OD's. Someone pumped a ton of jet in him. So much that fumes was running out of his nose. Well, says the chosen one that doesn't mean someone else is responsible. Your son could have taken too much. Jet is highly habit forming. Mr. Wright's face breaks into a snarl and he starts shouting. Boys, we got a visitor looking for a plotter land in Golgata. Get in here. Whoa, now hold on, we can say. Gonna feed you to the dog, he says. And with that the entire Wright family turns hostile. They're not much in a fight. But I'd still like to do their quests. So instead of insinuating that his son might have willfully taken jet, we can say. Hmm, I'll take the job. And Orville Wright nods. Alright then, now look, you find that son of a gun who killed my boy. Don't you touch him, you just come back and tell me the dead man's name. His eye is blaze. I'll take care of it from there. Any leads we can ask? And his eye is blaze. No. Everybody's too scared to talk to a Wright anyway. If I were you, I would question some of the Reno Kim pushers. See what they know. That jet came from somewhere. Alright, find the person who gave him the jet. Don't hurt him, just come back and tell you. Got it. And again, Orville Wright is sending us to talk to the jet dealers of new Reno. We see a wall safe in this room and it's locked. If we try to pick it. Oh, we set up a trap. But no one turns hostile. Okay, we'll just try this again. While picking the luck, we can overhear Orville talking to himself. I wonder if our marriage is legally binding, he says. Oh, not everything's roses in the Wright family. We wouldn't know it from the number of kids he has. Inside the safe, we find a frag grenade, some shotgun shells, Stimpaks, a first aid kit, and of course, some alcohol. Heading outside, we can check in with Keith. What do you want now, he says? Can you tell me about your brother, Richard? We can ask. And he says, good kid. Damn, if we ever find out who done it to him. Any ideas who might have done it, we can ask? Lot of their families sold jet. Could have been any of them, he says. More dinos got the most jet dealers though. Because they make the most jet. Me? I'm betting it was one of them. What dealers do you suspect, we can ask? Bunch of them, he says. Jimmy J on 2nd Street, that old son of a gun, Renesco in the West End, and Jewels deals too at the front of town. But mostly to dumb tourists. Then there's little Hesus More Dino. Little Hesus More Dino, we can say. He's big Hesus' son, says Keith. A bastard more like he might have come, Richard alone. Then pumped him full of jet out of spite. You looking for him, check out the Desperado. Little Hesus hangs out there with the old man. If we have high enough intelligence, we find a dialogue option to say, what can you tell me about Richard? Quiet kid, says Keith. Clean kid, kept out of trouble. And for a right, that's something. We buried him on the Golgotha plains a while ago. But even so, mom still don't want his room disturbed. It's hard for her to let go, you know. Which room was his, we can ask? Do you think your mother would mind if I looked in there? His room, says Keith. It's the empty one next to mom's room. The second one down from the kitchen. As for looking around, well, look, don't stay long. And don't mess the place up, or mom will pop a clip if she finds out. Thanks, Keith. I won't be long, we can say. So the room just below Ethel's room. We already explored that room, but at the time we weren't looking for signs of foul play. Heading back, we can give the room a more thorough examination, inspecting the bookshelf again. And if our perception is high enough, the chosen one sees something new. Hey, I found an empty jet canister beneath the dresser, he says. We found a clue behind the dresser in the right mansion. What, not a lead pipe in the billiard room? And we gained 500 experience points. Checking our inventory, there it is, empty jet canister. This empty jet canister was found in Richard Wright's room. It still has traces of jet inside. Well, I wonder what we can do with this. Heading out, we can move west. To track down an interview, the new Reno Kim dealers. We'll start by chatting with Jagged Jimmy J, he's the closest, standing right outside the jungle gym. While talking with him, we find an option to say, Do you know who gave that right kid the jet that killed him? And he says, oh, so now it comes out, does it? You want to know if old Jimmy got something to do with that, huh? No, I was just asked, screw you, says Jagged Jimmy J. I sell clean stuff. You want to know who poisoned that right kid? You go ask that old fool Renesco, or that weasel jewels. And you see what they say. Okay, okay, calm down. You listen, he continues. And you listen good. If I hear you were talking crap about me having anything to do with that right kid's death, I'll make sure you have a graven Galgotha right next to him. Okay, fine, but Jagged Jimmy J, you know anything about this empty jet canister? Jagged Jimmy J takes the canister and studies it. Now I, he sniffs the nozzle and frowns, chee-wrap! This jet's got red scorpion juice in it. Whoever was sucking on this ain't long for this world. And he slowly hints the canister back. It's poisoned? We exclaim. Hell yeah, says Jagged Jimmy J. Gotta be careful in this town with crap like that being passed around. That's why Jimmy always says, look, any idea where this might have come from, we can ask? And he says, no, I don't look now. Don't be spreading the word that's mine. If I were you, I'd ask jewels over in Esco about it. But you didn't hear that from me, right? Renesco and jewels, huh? I'll ask them about it. Thanks for the tip, Jagged Jimmy J. Well, which one? Renesco or jewels? We'll start with jewels. He's pretty close. Head and South Down Virgin Street. We find jewels. Right where we're left him, across the street from the cat's paw. Hey, hey, hey, welcome back. What does it you need from jewels, my friend? He says, no what happened to Mr. Wright's son, jewels. We can ask. Oh, right kid? Yeah, yeah, I heard about that. A damn shame. Kids his edge shouldn't be doing kems. They got so much to live for without being given impure crap. What do you mean impure crap we can ask? And he shrugs. Some dealers don't care what they sell, and people die. Now I ain't saying nothing, but I check with old Renesco the rocket man. See how good his stuff is. Renes of big place, jewels. Anyone else who might be responsible? Lot of dealers in town, little Jesus Mordino maybe, he says. But why he would sell to a Wright don't make any sense. There's Jack and Jimmy J up on second straight north here, but he's small time. I'd still check with Renesco though. You know anything about this empty jet canister? We can ask. Any glances at it? Like a hundred others I've seen. And I mind though, could be Jack and Jimmy J's of Renesco's. Interesting that he doesn't notice the rad scorpion poison on it though. Is it because he just missed it? Or did he not want to point it out? But we've got a few more interviews to do. The Desperado was right up the road. Heading inside, we can talk with a little Jesus Mordino, who's standing by the bar. Little Jesus picks his teeth with a dirty fingernail. Yeah. You heard anything about Richard Wright overdosing on jet, we can ask. That little piss ass right kid? Ha! You trying to pin that crap on me? You about to look. I ain't sorry the little jerk's dead, but I didn't have nothing to do with it. Oh yeah, we can say. Well the Mordinos are the biggest suppliers of jet and new reno. That makes you the first ones who are going to take the blame. Yeah, so what if we take the blame? Don't mean we did it. Little jerk took too much. I ain't sorry he's dead. And if old man Wright starts throwing down, we'll bury him right next to his junky kid. Well if you didn't give it to him, do you know who sold Richard the jet that killed him, we can say? Yeah, says little Jesus. Renesco, the rocket man. Sell so much jet, he could shoot you to the moon. He's on the west side in Salvatore territory. He don't like the Wright's none, and his cams ain't pure, no what I'm saying. He can't be the only dealer in a town this size we can say. And he says no, there's others, but Renesco's the one who'd done it. What makes you say that we can say? Because he's a half blind cracker with a mean streak of mile wide that sells bad crap. That's why you go see him. You see what he says about the Wright kid, and then you'll see I'm right. Renesco, Jules, and Jagajimijay. Got it. Thanks for the information. Well, we're picking up a common theme here. None of them admit to selling the jet to the Wright kid, and yet Renesco is the first person they all mention. Why is it they all think he's the most likely suspect? There's only one way to find out. Heading to the west side, we can step inside Renesco's pharmacy. Look, I'm a busy man, says Renesco, the rocket man. Did you sell jet to Richard Wright, we can ask? Don't you even try to pin that accusation on me. You wanna know who did it? Ask Twittledum and Twittledum are of there still selling jet laced with our snack. Twittledum and Twittledum are? Who are they, we can ask? That vulture Jules and that lion reprobate Jagajimijay. Jules has always perched near the entrance to town, looking for ignorant visitors to victimize, and Jagajimijay deals on second street to the rest of the Reno cattle. They said, ask you, we can say. They said, you sell bad cams. Cams that kill people. Look, primate. You don't even know what you're babbling about. Yeah? Well then why don't open your mouth again and even a whisper, even a hint. Reach as Mr. Wright that I or you might have had anything to do with that boy's OD, our lives ain't worth brawman crap. If that happens, me, now hold on just a if that happens, you tribal crap. I swear you'll die before I do. Now, for the last time, that kid never bought crap from me. Understand? Don't you ever say his name in here again or so help me? Jules said he didn't sell to the kid, we can say. Jimmy says he didn't sell to the kid. You say you didn't sell to him. Either you wall or lion or somebody else is responsible. I can answer that one easy, as Ronesco. One of those two Mongols is lion to save their behind. Between the two, they sell 90% of the jet in Reno, and that's the only place the boy we're talking about could have gotten it from. Or somebody that bought from one of you three, we can say, who were your customers last month who might have had contact with the victim? I have no idea, says Ronesco. I didn't know the boy, so I don't know his friends or his habits. The only one who could tell you for sure is to busy being dead in Golgotha to tell you. Golgotha, we can ask. Golgotha, he says. Masked grave outside the town to the south. Follow the stench. The one other than your own. Well, can you tell me anything about this empty jet canister we can ask? It's empty, says Ronesco. It's a jet canister like the hundreds of others all over the Reno. Anything else I can help you with? No one anything about the rad scorpion venom traces that are in the canister we can ask? Rad scorpion? Ronesco suddenly freezes as if remembering something. You know something about it, don't you we can ask? Whoa, now wait just a minute, says Ronesco. Don't mess with me, Ronesco. You try and weasel out of this one and you'll be joining Richard. Understand? Says the chosen one, rather harshly. Wait a minute, says Ronesco. Look, I didn't sell it to the kid. He never bought anything from me. I was asked to make some jet laced with rad scorpion venom, but I didn't sell it to the kid. You were asked to make poison jet for who? We can ask the salvatories requested it. They said it was a special order. I didn't know they were going to give it to the right kid. You have to believe me. I don't poison kids. Why did you poison the jet? You had to know they were going to kill someone with it, we can ask. Look, the salvatories own me, says Ronesco. They own this place. And when they want something, I give it to them. Or they'll kill me and have me replaced. I never meant any harm to that boy. Yeah, says the chosen one. I'm sure you had the best of intentions while you were spiking that jet with poison. Goodbye, Ronesco. Well, we solved the case. We don't have a motive. Why would the salvatories want to kill Richard Wright? But at least we know who did it. Heading back to Orval Wright. He says you again. You find out who killed my boy? Now, at this point, we can answer a number of ways. We could say, yeah, it was Jewels, the dealer at the front of town. Or we can say Jagajime J, the dealer on Second Street. Or we can say, that old geezer, Ronesco, the rocket man. Or Little Hazeus Mordino. He deals jet, but all of these options lead to the death of an innocent person. Jagajime J, Jewels and Ronesco will disappear from the game. And if we accuse Little Hazeus, we start a mob war between the rights and the Mordinos. And when we next step foot in the Desperado, everyone turns hostile. So instead, we'll tell him the truth. Your son didn't die of an overdose. He was poisoned. Whoop, poisoned? What in hell's name are you talking about? Now, there are two ways we could have gotten to this point. The first is having found the jet canister in Richard's room. We can say, I found this jet canister that Richard used. Or was used on Richard. There were traces of red scorpion venom in the cartridge. Alternatively, if we found Richard's corpse in his grave in Golgotha, it's the one that had the body of a teenage boy inside when we dug it up in my video on Golgotha that you can watch here. If our intelligence and perception were high enough, we would have picked up a trace of red scorpion venom, in which case we could have used that clue instead of the jet canister to track down all of these details. Either way, we come to the same conclusion. We can say that he was poisoned with red scorpion venom. The jet overdose was just a cover for the poisoning. Assuming I believe this for a second, and I ain't saying I am, then who poisoned my son? And why did they go to the trouble of dosen and with jet? Now we have a couple of options here. We can tell him the truth by being as vague as possible, doing our best not to implicate Rinesco. Where it is it was the Salvatore as we can say. They pumped him with jet laced with red scorpion venom, then left him for you to find. Or we can tell him the honest truth. Running the risk that Orval right here won't be reasonable, and will still blame Rinesco for the poisoning. We can say, I don't know which of the Salvatore's did it. Rinesco doctored up some jet for them, not knowing they'd use it to poison your son. That bastard seen his last days as Orval right, come morning he'll be dead, but he'll be a long time dying. But Rinesco didn't give Richard the jet, we can say. He didn't know who it was for. It was the Salvatore's that poisoned your son. Now why in the hell would they do that? It says Orval right, and that's a good question. But the chosen one here is pretty bright. He pieces it all together. He says, way I see it, the Morditos control the jet in Reno. Naturally you'd blame them for a chem overdose, and there'd be a war. If you two didn't wipe each other out, you'd at least be weakened by the fight. That makes life easier for the Salvatore's. All they have to worry about then is the bishops. Orval right stairs at us for a long time, then a dry chuckle escapes his lips. You gave me an answer, and I can't do nothing about it. The Salvatore's got to them it. And it takes a deep breath. You can't do anything about it, we can say. What do you mean? Know what those Salvatore bastards are armed with friend? Those damn lightbringers. One Salvatore packing that kind of heat can kill my whole family without batting an eye. To beat that I'd need... What, we can ask? Well, now before I get into specifics, let's settle accounts first. Here's a little cash for your trouble. Plus some ammo, liquor from my private stock, and another job for you, if you're interested. I'm interested, says the chosen one. It so happens continues Orval right? Not too long ago I came across a map that shows an old army base in the mountains, not far from here. You find a way in there, and I'll see that you're taken care of. Why should I go, we can ask? Didn't you send somebody already? Mr. Wright's expression tightens for a moment, then he snorts. Not exactly. The fellows I got the map from are dead. They were a tough bunch, but they all got wiped out trying to get inside the base. They didn't even get inside, we can say. Yeah, says Orval, right? The only survivor said, shortly before his unfortunate death, said that there were some kind of supergun turrets guarding the entrance. Wipeed out most of his boys. One habit of the survivor we can ask, and he says, oh, old Sam Pritchard? Sad story. Got drunk one night, mentioned to my boy Keith, he'd found this base. And for you know it, he'd rossed me a map and dies. You sleepin' in Galkotha now. I'll you draw a map, and then mysteriously died. Okay, nothing suspicious about that. Seems like Reno's filled with sad stories these days as the chosen one. I'll take the job. Orval Wright nods and smiles. All right, then, come back when you found a way in, and I'll see you're well-rewarded. Now, as for the location of the base, head north, then, and it gives us coordinates for the army base, which we promptly punch into our pit boy. All right, we can say. I'll go check it out. When I find a way inside, I'll be back. But before we head out on this next mission, we still have to resolve things with his wife. We told her that we'd meet her outside the church. Heading that way, if we arrive at the agreed-upon time, we see Ethel walking down the sidewalk, and she stops just outside the door to Father Tully's. You see Mrs. Wright. She looks crushed. Uh, Ethel says the chosen one. Are you okay? All true. Everything you said was true. She sighs. The still was not dismantled. Not at all. And she frowns. I trusted that man, but alcohol made him lie to me. Lie to his own wife. Now we could kick her when she's down like this and say, Oh, yes, Ethel. Further proof of the evil of alcohol. It can make people do terrible things, especially when the twin devils of money and power are involved. Or we can let her vent. And she smolders. I will make him keep the promise he made. If I have to destroy that still with my own hands, then Orville and I shall have words. We'll see what that little weasel says then. The quickest way to get this done is to let Ethel take care of it herself. Good idea, we can say. Maybe you should go destroy the still. I will by Tarnation, she says, and she rolls up her sleeves. To our surprise, she has arms like a weed lifter. Thank you for opening my eyes, stranger. I'll put my husband back on the straight and narrow, even if it kills him. Well, since the chosen one, have fun storming the castle, which of course is a reference to the Princess Bride. Bye bye, boys! Have fun storming the castle! Think it'll work? It would take a miracle. Goodbye! With that Ethel right marches off, we complete the quest and earn 500 experience. When we next visit the brewery beneath the train station, we see that it's empty. All the workers are gone. You see a large alcohol brewing that. It is broken. And the damage looks irreparable. But if we are feeling chivalrous, we can say, no, let me handle it. It's beneath the train station, right? I'll take care of it. And she says, you'll destroy it? I...well, alright. She builds up steam. Get it down! Wreck it! Leave nothing! Alright, we can say. But now, she says, I don't want you to hurt any of my children. No moving guns. They're not bad children. They've just been... misled. I'll have to see what I can do to change that. Okay, we can say, don't worry, there'll be no casualties. But this proves to be a hard promise to fulfill. Heading back to the train station and going to the basement, we can use our repair or science skills on the stills to destroy them. But if we do, every child in the basement turns hostile. But if we're careful or lucky, we learn that the vat grinds to a halt, and it looks irreparable. And we gain 500 experience. We only have to do this to one of them. Incidentally, while we're here, and if we happen to have one, we can drop a rad scorpion tail into one of the vats. You drop it into the vat, and you watch it sink to the bottom. Then I'm bleeding out of the poison sack. This act kills all of the drunkards in town. And for this deed, we lose 30 karma. With the vats destroyed, we can head back to Ethel Wright outside the church. We see Ethel as we approach, she looks up upfully. Is it... I smashed it to the ground. Nothing left. All taken care of. And tears well up in her eyes. Thank you, stranger. You have dealt a blow here to the evil in New Reno. I don't know how to thank you. I'm a little light on cash, we can say. Then we can remedy that, she says. Follow me. We follow her. Here we go, she says. Everything in this locker is yours. Some money to help you on your travels. And a handy tool that I have found useful in pounding sense into the particularly mule headed. Thank you for all you've done. Thank you, Mrs. Wright, we can say. And she walks off. Inspecting our inventory, we see that we have a few more caps. And we've got the Louisville slugger. This all-American hardwood baseball bat will knock anything right out of the park. Minimum strength 4, it weighs 4 pounds. The Louisville slugger is one of the best melee weapons in the game. It's the second best two-handed melee weapon, bested only by the super-sledge. It deals between 12 and 30 damage and only consumes 3 points of AP. It has the weapon knockback effect, which can be useful in situations where you're being crowded. But when fighting only one opponent, it means you have to chase after them, which consumes even more AP. Now, we have to find a way into the Sierra Army base for Orval Wright. But we are out of time. We'll have to tackle the Army base in my next episode. I publish new Fallout videos each and every week on my channel. So if you don't want to miss my next episode, be sure to subscribe and click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. Lions pride. The Brotherhood does its best, but sometimes they need a little something special. That's where Lions pride comes in. This brand new design comes on shirts and a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find it on other products as well like smartphone cases, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So with interest, you can find the link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do when you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.