- In our last episode, we infiltrated the mobile base crawler sitting on the runway at Adam's Air Force Base. The mobile base crawler was the enclave's final occupied base in the area. After navigating all the way to the top of the base, we entered the communications tower and finally found the satellite uplink terminal. This is the terminal that the enclave used to call down a missile strike to destroy Liberty Prime. Satellite uplink terminal. No unauthorized personnel. We can check the satellite status. Uplink to Bradley Hercules satellite is tablished. Running diagnostics. Propulsion fault. Electrical okay. Optical okay. Navigation okay. Payload status okay. Loading hardware fault. Launch hardware. Okay. Propulsion system red. Propulsion available. Payload loading error. Payloads locked in fire position. All fire control systems are green. Satellite ready to commit and fire payload. So the enclave hacked into a pre-war orbiting satellite called the Bradley Hercules, which they used to launch their missile strikes. Incidentally, the name Bradley Hercules is a reference to the 1979 film Meteor about an orbiting nuclear launch platform called the Hercules designed by a doctor Bradley played by Sean Connery to blow away meteors on a collision course with Earth. It was poorly received upon release. Next we can check the payload. Uplink to Bradley Hercules satellite established. Running detailed payload check. Warhead Salvo 1 depleted. 2 depleted. 3 depleted. 4 depleted. 5, 6, 7, 8. Ready ready ready. All fire control systems screen. Satellite ready to commit and fire payload. So even though half of the satellites payload was depleted, the enclave still had the ability to wreak quite a lot of havoc in the capital wasteland. We can try to load a payload, but it says load hardware fault detected. This leaves one option to fire the payload. Just like the enclave has a number of predetermined targets and we can't change these. We can try to fire a salvo at project purity. Satellite not in proper orbit path. Perhaps that's the reason they didn't fire upon project purity when the brotherhood took it back. Or maybe they just didn't want to kill Colonel Autumn. Next we see that they have Megaton programmed in here, but if we try to fire upon it, satellite not in proper orbit path. Why would they want to fire at Megaton? Just to kill as many people as they could? Or did they know that that's where we lived? Next we see that they have riveted city in here, but it also is not in the proper orbit path. That leaves two pre-programmed destinations. The Adams Air Force Base Mobile Crawler platform where we are now, or the Citadel. They could have destroyed the Citadel at any time. Why didn't they? Well to eradicate the enclave, I think our choice is clear. We need to destroy the Adams Air Force Base platform, but to find out what happens, for now we'll choose the Citadel. Satellite fire control system, target acquired, Citadel. Warning, this will commit all warheads to target and lock this station. If we're sure we really want to destroy the brotherhood of steel, we can fire the payload. We lose karma, but we can't go back. Once done, we can turn south and open the door outside. We arrive on a vertebrae landing pad and then... A vertebrae flies by and bombs the platform. Why would the enclave bomb their own platform? Were they trying to reach me? But then we see one begin to land, and it's emboysened with the brotherhood of steel and insignia. So the brotherhood captured the enclave's vertebrae birds, then out of the vertebrae bird walks Sarah Lyons. Surprised to see me? Actually, I completely forgot about you. Still got that annoying sense of humor, huh? I'm not really surprised. Your father said you'd pull through. He's told me everything you've done, and the sacrifice is your family's made for the sake of the wasteland. I'll say I'm surprised, you look much better. Well, we both have the pride to thank for that. Without them we'd both be dead. That's enough about me. You've done one hell of an outstanding job out here, soldier. A hell of a job. Now it's time to do my job, and to get your ass onto this vertebrae before it goes up like a nuke. Okay, okay, I'm coming. Get the lead out, soldier. This place is about to get flattened. Yes, ma'am. Quickly, just get on board before those missiles level this place. Anything you say. We can talk back at the citadel. Hurry, the orbital strike will be coming down any moment now. If Sarah Lyons died at Project Purity, all that changes here is Sarah doesn't emerge from the vertebrae. Instead, we simply have to enter it. Is it a hell control, this is Brian Wong? Citadel control, come in. What the hell's wrong with the equipment of this flying? Shut up. Let me try this. Citadel control, come in. This is Brian Wong. Citadel control, we're in the heck of a room. There must be a valve function or some trouble over there. We're going to head right over and see what's going on. Hang on. Citadel isn't responding and only we know why after a short flight. What the hell? The whole place. It's gone. It was you. You did this. You goddamn murderer. You killed them all. Kill this traitor. Kill him. And with that, the brotherhood turns hostile. We have to kill them all, including Sarah. Originally enough, the Tesla Cannon doesn't work on a brotherhood vicarbird. Having Sarah's body, we see her unique, lion's pride power armor, but nothing else of interest. Turning around, we see the Citadel inflames. And we have to pick up a few more brotherhood as we get closer. For some reason, Paladin Bale is immortal, so we'll just run by him for now. We see exactly what this orbital strike did to the Citadel. And oh my god, the entire thing is ruined. The missiles penetrated the earth and destroyed the lab beneath. All we see is fire and smoke and rubble. There are no signs of life. How could anyone have survived this? Jumping down into the pit. At the very bottom, we see one door in the northwestern wall. This door leads to the Citadel armory. Inside we find our ruined hallway. The path blocked to the left and a nukka column machine to the right. To continue to go up some stairs to the west, and we arrive in an office space. This does not look familiar. We never explored this in the Citadel. Perhaps the bombs opened up another section to the prewar Pentagon that has been locked away for 200 years. In the east, we see a skeleton. Oh, with a fan on his junk? What? I'm at a loss for words. I mean, there are lots of ways to commit suicide. Some more preferable than others. This is not high up on the list. Turning left, we see a teddy bear on a shelf. We can take that for a little Marie. And on a desk, we find Calla Hans Terminal, locked with a hard lock. After hacking it, United States military police. Pentagon substation 3a. We see four entries in the first incident report August 7, 2077. Reporting officer Harold Kellahan. Fire alarm was sounded at approximately 10.05 am in the vending area near cafeteria B3. I immediately rushed to the location and encountered General Robert Dobbs kicking a nukka column machine repeatedly. General Dobbs ignored my order to stand down from his actions and drew his side arm. He then proceeded to fire seven shots into the machine, rupturing several bottles and piercing the coin box. After the coins began pouring to the floor, he picked up one of them and exclaimed, stealing from a superior officer, Are you out of your mind soldier? He holstered his side arm, then looked at me, then back with the machine and simply stated, Well, don't just stand there. I believe this soldier needs a medic, son. The general was relieved of his side arm and placed in our lock-up facility until Metro DC police arrived to pick him up. Oh, okay. And these were the guys leading the pre-war military before the bombs dropped. Somehow I'm not surprised. In the next one, incident report August 16, 2077. Reporting officer Harold Kellahan. Secretary Maybell Myers from Accounting Division called us down here and reported an altercation between two other secretaries. Sergeant Deak De Silva and I arrived at the scene to find two female secretaries, Carol Wallace and Isabel Franks scuffling on the floor. We broke up the altercation and took their statements. Miss Wallace was accusing Miss Franks of being a, quote, Spy for those damn red bastards. End quote And stating that she overheard, quote, Secret conversations between Isabel and her Chinese conspirators. Miss Frank simply stated that she was, quote, Speaking to her husband about weekend plans. End quote Both ladies were given a warning and sent home for the day by their supervisors. Tensions have been running high lately ever since the incident in Alaska. And this is just one example of the effect it is having on everyone. In the next one, incident report August 22nd, 2077. Reporting officer Harold Kellahan. A silent alarm tripped on stairwell 117 and I immediately responded. As I approached the stairwell entrance, I heard noises as if someone was in duress. I drew my weapon and entered by kicking open the door. I discovered Ronald Bales from intelligence analysis in a compromising position with Will Muffire Stone, a secretary from the accounting division. I gave them both a warning and told Mr. Bales that this is his fifth and final one. The next time he's discovered performing this type of activity on Pentagon property, he'll be fined. And disciplinary action will be recommended. Okay, slap on the wrist for the participating woman. But then again I suppose he is a repeat offender. And the final option is to unlock the safe. Turning right we find Kellahan's wall safe. And inside the safe we find a unique weapon, Kellahan's Magnum. Kellahan's Magnum is the most powerful small arm handgun in the entire game. And far and away the best 44 Magnum. It deals 65 damage, which is 10 more than the next best Magnum, Blackhawk, which only deals 55. It deals higher critical damage, 50 compared to Blackhawk's 45 and it costs fewer action points, 25 compared to Blackhawk's 32. This brings its DPS up to 146.3 compared to the Blackhawk's 123.8 and its damage per action point up to 2.6 compared to the Blackhawk's 1.7. Its only downside is that it has low durability. Two all five compared to the Blackhawk's 218, which itself is less than a typical scoped Magnum's 229. But the only way to find this weapon is to destroy the Pentagon. Harold Kellahan here is a reference to Harry Kellahan from the dirty Harry films who also wielded a 44 Magnum. In the cubicle on the other side of Harry's we find a lunchbox on a shelf with a bunch of bottle caps and then turning north we see a huge hole in the wall leading to the brotherhood armory. We weren't able to access this in the citadel, we see a big cage dofferia and inside the cage is a dead dismembered brotherhood of steel initiate and on his body we find the armory key. On the countertop we find two Tesla cannons and a stack of electron charge packs. We find two lockers each of which is filled with ammo canisters. We can walk away with all sorts of ammunition including missiles, energy cells and lots of conventional ammo. On the wall next to this is the Armory 089A Terminal. Armory security access terminal please list all equipment checked in or out. We can try to log a new item change but it says error, mainframe connection lost. Moving down to item 908774, addition slash removal, addition. Item type Mini Nuke shells number three authorized Night Lazarus. First slash receiver recovered by patrol and DC ruins. Item recovered from overturned army truck being used as ambush point by talent company. Shells were in a locked ammo crate. We don't believe that talent company was aware of what was inside. In the next item 908775, removal type getling laser number one authorized Paladin Tristan, weapon assigned to squad seven by Paladin Tristan for Adam's Air Force base operational mission. Assigned to Night Marcus. In the next one 908776, removal type fragmentation grenades number 12, authorized Paladin Tristan. Receiver, weapons assigned to squad seven by Paladin Tristan for Adam's Air Force base operational mission. Weapons distributed equally across entire squad. And in the final one, 908777, addition type Tesla Cannon number four, authorized scribe Valancourt. Source, weapons being created by scribe Valancourt's team are being stored in several army locations for safety. Scribe Valancourt ordered four of the Tesla cannons, be placed in this armory and locked down in secure area. Moving on from the terminal, we find a shelf covered in ammunition, a stack of missiles, five millimeter rounds, two laser pistols, more energy cells, three-ohweight caliber rounds, three mini-nukes on the top shelf, five 56 millimeter rounds, ten millimeter rounds, a bunch of plasma grenades, three laser rifles, alien power cells, hey that's a welcome site, microfusion cells, and flamer fuel. Having out of the cageed off area, we find another cage near to this, we can use the armory key we found on the body of the initiate to open it. Here we find three new good grenades on a countertop next to a sniper rifle. A very rare explosive, and then on the wall we find four of our state kits. We can climb a rubble ramp to the floor above, this looks like another pre-war area that is caved in, we find a skeleton in a corner by a desk, he had a kitchen knife in his hand, some cherry bombs and a sensor module on a box next to him, as well as a stack of caps, wonder what his plan was. Turning around we find a door to the east, this leads to a staircase that we can take all the way up to another floor. We see a door to the left, and all the pathways south and west are caved in, to leave we can open the door to the east, back to the citadel courtyard, and we arrive on a level overlooking the carnage. If we chose to end broken steel by siding with the enclave and destroying the citadel, three dog has this to say on galaxy news radio. Not too long ago, I saw a big boom for my bedroom, in the direction of that bastion of neo-nightly badassness, but that would be impossible right? Nobody would have the power and the opportunity or the giant guerrilla size balls to destroy the citadel. Bright, wrong my children, so very wrong, I really can't believe I'm saying this, but the concrete casser of those shiny guys with big guns has gone coplewy. The three pointed by loads of people around the capital wasteland, missiles rain down from the sky, and left the citadel a big, smoke and crater. And, my sources tell me, this is the same hell of hellfire that destroyed Liberty Prime himself. Looks like an enclave super-weapon at work. It's a dark day for us all. When someone sees fit to destroy the only guy standing between us and complete obliteration, I want a one. Why is it come to this? Children, pray for the soul of Edloan Wanderer, and pray for the rest of us too while you're at it. From here we can take a catwalk back down and leave, by the way we came in. But that's just one way to end the broken steel DLC. Heading back in time, instead of bombing the citadel, we can choose to target the Adam's Air Force Base platform. Satellite fire control system target acquired. Adam's Air Force Base mobile platform warning. This will commit all more heads to target and lock on this station when ready we can fire the payload. And we gain karma. Then just like last time, we can leave through the southern door. The vertebrae flies by, bombs the base crawler again, then Sarah's lands. She steps out to greet us and we can hop in the vertebrae for a flight back to the citadel. But this time... Take on, I'm going to sit this work down near the control tower so we can watch the fireworks. It should be a hell of a show. The Brotherhood land the vertebrae on a vertebrae landing pad near the air traffic control tower. And here we have an excellent view of the mobile base crawler. Stepping forward. It has ash and shrapnel rains down on top of us. We witness the end of the enclave in the Capitol Wasteland. When done, we can hop back in the vertebrae for our final trip back to the citadel. Don't worry about the re-lapering of the enclave, horses will bump up the rest. And a short trip later. When I first met you some time ago, I was leery of your motivations and even more concerned with your methods. At the battle for project purity, you proved yourself and any doubts that I had about you dissipated on that day. Now with the enclave in ruins and with you to thank for it, I'm almost at a complete loss for words. I feel proud to call you one of our own and I promise that what you've done here today will be recorded by our scribes as an historic moment. On behalf of the Brotherhood of Steel and on behalf of the free people of this Wasteland, I thank you. Well thank you Elder Lions, that was very kind. With that we complete Who dares Wins and we finish the broken steel TLC. Next we can check in with Sarah. When I first saw you long ago in that alley in Chevy Chase, I thought you were just some trashy wastelander. I'm glad I was wrong. My father thinks the world of you and so do why. If things were different, maybe we could have had time to become friends. Anyway, I wish you the best of luck and I hope you stick around for a while. We need people like you to help us finish what we started here. Oh Sarah, well so what happens to the Brotherhood now? If you think this means the Pride has nothing to do anymore, you're crazy. We still got the damn Frankenstein's crawling all over DC and Rothschild's got us picking up every blinking gizmo from here to Virginia. Quite a bit of work cut out for us huh? So have we totally wiped out the enclave? My father says we need to watch the borders for them to send reinforcements, but I think it'll be a long time before anything happens. We dealt them a hell of a blow and it's going to take them a good amount of time to recover. What's next for the Pride? They're sending us into DC to scour the ruins and try and cleanse it of super mutants. He's calling it our next great obstacle. Sometimes I wish we could just take a rest. But I have to keep a stiff upper lip and help the machine run smoothly. So that's what I'm going to do. Is there anything else I can do to help the Brotherhood? Well, the prize got the downtown area pretty well covered. You may want to talk to Paladin Tristan or Skry broth child. They may have something for you to do. Good luck. I have to go now. Always a pleasure to have you around. Next we can check in with Skry broth child who came up to greet us. Well, I suppose we have you to thank for the sudden influx of equipment pouring in from the ruins you left behind at Adam's Air Force Base. These items will help keep us one step ahead of our enemies in the wasteland and hopefully start my reconstruction effort. Mark my words. Prime will walk again. That may take months or even years, but we'll get him back together. If you're inclined to help us with that effort, just let me know. And as we know from the events of Fallout 4, Rothschild was right about that. So Rothschild, what happens to the Brotherhood now? I've been amazingly busy ever since we began clashing with the enclave. All their technologies, it's amazing. It's going to take me years to sift through the wreckage of their mobile platform alone. I suppose we have you to thank for that. So have we totally wiped out the enclave? From the amount of equipment pouring in, I'd say, if we didn't destroy them. We certainly threw a major wrench into their works. How's the reconstruction of Liberty Prime going? We have so much to do putting him back together again. I'm uncertain as to how long it might take… months, years? The only bright side in this is an opportunity to try and rebuild Prime from the ground up. Make improvements on his original design. If only we hadn't exhausted so many of our supplies fighting the enclave. Months, years, try over a decade. Well is there anything else I can do to help the Brotherhood? Yes, yes please. Your help would be most welcome. As you know, my main task is the reconstruction of Liberty Prime, a daunting task indeed given his current state. To get him back on his feet will take not only a good deal of scavenged parts, but I need some special items for his complex systems. In your travels, be on the lookout for sensor modules that will help me with restoring his electrical components. But what I need most are old cameras. Prime's optics were completely destroyed in the explosion and I can use the components inside to replace them. And with that we unlock a repeatable quest with Scrib Rothschild. I have cameras for you Scrib Rothschild. Good, good. Please keep bringing them to me. It's my only hope of getting Prime's optics rebuilt. And then if we have sensor modules we can say I found some sensor modules for you. Ah, very nice. I'll have my assembling team get right on it. We get 100 caps and 25 experience for every camera and 75 caps and 10 experience for every sensor module. Next we can track down Paladin Tristan. Haha, I told those bastards you could do it. Although we're doubters inside the Citadel to be certain, but Lions was behind you all the way and that was good enough for me. I can't think of a better compliment but to simply say the brotherhood would be almost nothing without you. Thank you. So what happens to the brotherhood now? Well, the enclave might not be a threat anymore but we're not done by a long shot. We've still got muties crawling all over the ruins like rats and they're multiplying every day. It's no picnic keeping their numbers down, but that's our job. So have we totally wiped out the enclave? Nah, there'll be stragglers and patrols still wandering the wasteland. They won't know what happened at Adams probably for months. One thing I can tell you is they'll still shoot you on sight. So watch yourself. Is there anything else I can do to help the brotherhood? Well, yes, actually. If you're still up for it I could always use a hand with my next assignment. The super mutants are still a major problem in the capital wasteland and one of our primary missions is to cleanse this place of their stink. All I need you to do is to thin their numbers. You see one, you put a bullet into its head. I'm outfitting your pit boy with the same blood sampling device we usually give our scouts. After you kill a mutant, grab a sample from its corpse, bring it here. I'll see you properly compensated for your ammo expenditure. With that we get an unmarked and repeatable quest to turn and super mutant blood samples to Paladin Tristan. Now whenever we loot a super mutant, we have a chance to find a super mutant blood sample. Heading back to Paladin Tristan, I've got blood samples to turn in. Great. Keep them coming. And for each blood sample we get 50 caps and 10 experience. While down on the lab we see the ruins of Liberty Prime on the elevator. And by Rothschild's workstation we find two more Tesla kinens. And we can check in with Liberty Prime here. On our way out we can say goodbye to Elder Lions. Oh yes, is there something you wish to discuss? So what happens to the Brotherhood now? Although we've all but eradicated the enclave, many difficult paths still stretch out before us. The wasteland is still rife with peril, and I intend to dedicate the Brotherhood to maintaining it in a peaceful state. I hold out high hopes for you that you'll still wish to be a part of our future and help us in our struggles. So have we totally wiped out the enclave? It would be naive of me to assume the enclave threat is completely eradicated from our future? With their resources and advanced mobility, I wouldn't be surprised if we see them return to the capital wasteland one day. Is there anything else I can do to help the Brotherhood? Yes. Yes indeed. I believe Paladin Tristan and Skry Rothschild can enlighten you with a myriad of waves you can assist us. I'm glad to see even after all you've been through you're still willing to lend a hand. That's the mark of a noble member of the Brotherhood. I have to go now. Until we meet again, do take care. At any time we can take the Presidential Metro again to arrive back at the Adam's Air Force base. And if we do we find the base firmly in Brotherhood control, their knights and paladins are crawling all over the place, and we can walk away with a few more goodies. From the Presidential Metro, if we walk north past the building with all the turrets on the roof, we find an army truck with a Brotherhood of Steel race supply crate in the back. Inside we find Electron Charge Packs, a stealth boy and two Tesla cannons. Then if we head towards the hangers, we find another race supply crate just outside Hanger 4A, and inside we find more Electron Charge Packs and two more Tesla cannons. Then turning around, if we pass through Hanger's 3A and 3B and move towards Hanger 2B, we find another race supply crate just outside of it with more Electron Charge Packs and two more Tesla cannons inside. Then passing between Hanger's 2A and 2B, if we head towards the Air Traffic Control Tower and then move out onto the runway, we find a final Brotherhood race supply crate on the ground behind some sandbag barricades. Inside, more Electron Charge Packs and two more Tesla cannons, and we can examine the devastation we have brought upon the mobile base crawler. Smoke still rises from the middle, and the pipes and conduits snaking all over it are busted, sticking out in all directions. We see that the ramp is gone, there's no way to enter it again, and going all the way around we see the satellite tower in pieces on the ground. If we chose to end broken steel by siding with the Brotherhood and destroying the enclave's mobile base crawler, three dog has this to say on Galaxy News Radio. We've had our Cheryl problems here in beautiful Washington, DC, but didn't it bus really see those enclave idiots coming? Man, I thought that blowhard Eden was just a pre-recorded pain in my ass. That was before Devil-headed storm troopers moved into the neighborhood. Now, the Brotherhood is still may have taken care of those losers back of the newfangled faucet called Project Curity, but they weren't done. Children, I'm pleased to announce that the beautiful Brotherhood has mangled the last base those enclave bastards had left. So if you see some enclave rejects wandering around, have pity. They're homeless after all. And if you see that kid from Vault 101, pass along your thanks. Because the Brotherhood did not act alone. Thank you 101. And that is the full story of Broken Steel. There are a few more loose ends we'll need to tie up in future episodes, and I want to take a look at some of the things that happen after Broken Steel. Events we only learn about during the story of Fallout 4. I'll tackle those topics in upcoming videos. What are your thoughts on Broken Steel? How does it compare to the other DLCs of Fallout 3? And what choice did you make? Did you blow up the citadel or the mobile base crawler? And what were your reasons? Let me know your thoughts in the comments section below. I publish new Fallout videos each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss my next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxford. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a brand new shirt in the shop. Lions pride. The Brotherhood does its best, but sometimes it needs something special. That's where Lions pride comes in. You can find this design on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. It comes on other products as well, like smartphone cases, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.