In our last episode, we helped Killian Darkwater defeat Gizmo, a casino owner and crime overboss of Junktown. While at Junktown we picked up two new companions, Tyco, a desert ranger from Nevada, and Dogmate, a main g-mut who was terrorizing Phil, one of the Junktown locals, our party grows stronger by the day. But sadly, Killian Darkwater didn't have any information about a water chip, when Prasthi suggested that we head further south to find the hub, one of the largest cities in the post-apocalyptic wasteland. And so we travel south, down from the mountains across the deserts. Until at last, we arrive at the hub. The hub is called the hub, not only because it is a hub of commerce, but also because the layout of this town resembles the hub of a wheel, with four spokes and a primary market place in the center of the wheel. The northernmost spoke is the entrance. This is where we arrive from the wasteland. We don't find any merchants here, but we do find a few people who can fill us in and tell us more about the hub. Directly south of the entrance is the center of the hub, the merchant marketplace, downtown. We'll visit all of these locations in greater detail, but to get our bearings from the very beginning, to the far west we find the crimson caravan. We can take odd jobs from these guys. There are a great way to make money and gain experience at lower levels. The southern portion of this same building is a barren casino called the Maltese Falcon. Here we find something CD going on. We'll have to cover that in a later video. The four huts in the middle of this map are the primary merchants of the hub. There's a general store, a library which functions as a bookstore, a guns shop, and a loan shark. This is FLC, the friendly lending company. But we'll soon learn that they're not quite so friendly. Just south of this is Bob's iguana stand. I already talked about them, but we'll stop by a little later. We find the hub police in the building furthest to the east, the hub police enforce law and the police are all over, so it's best if we don't run around guns blazing. The police will become important later on they'll help us solve a tricky quest. And then just north of the police station are the Fargo traders. This is another caravan company, but since they don't take on jobs that are quite as dangerous as the crimson caravan, their jobs are much safer but not as lucrative. However, they are involved in a primary quest for this town, so we'll see a lot of them later. The spoke directly to the west leads to the hub heights. There's not much here. The lower building is a private home belonging to an upper class resident of the hub, and the northern building houses his personal guards. They're involved in one quest. We'll come back to visit them later. Heading back into downtown, if we exit downtown to the south, we arrive at the water merchants. Immediately to the west, we find a church for the children of the cathedral. This is our first introduction to the church. We'll have to talk with them to learn more about what they believe, and directly south we find the water merchants. The water merchants are the third caravan company operating out of the hub, but they're not very adventurous. Their trips are quite safe, which means they don't pay quite as much. However, they make trips much more frequently, which means we can get quite a few jobs out of them. The water merchants will become important later. We'll be back to visit them. Heading north back to downtown, the final spoke to this hub is to the east. This leads to Old Town. All of the buildings to the south are slums. We find scags, the homeless, and social rejects living here. It's also the perfect place for someone to hide. Say, if they were engaging in illicit activities, we'll talk with the residents of the slum and turn this place upside down a little later. But to the north, we find some rather important businesses. In the middle building, we find a high-powered weapons vendor, and in the far northeastern building, we find a Kim's merchant. Due to the nature of his business, he's reluctant to work with us. Now that we understand the layout of the hub, we can begin to explore, and we'll start at the entrance. The hub is a caravan town. Caravans come in and out day and night. And wander all around the wasteland. The hub is the reason that many of the towns and settlements around the wasteland have access to food, weapons, ammunition, and even water. At the entrance, we find evidence of this we find no fewer than three Brahman pens filled with Brahman. In the first building to the left, we find a fellow willing to talk with us as long as we talk with him during the day. This is Dan the Brahman man, and his jobs to take care of the Caravan wagons that come in and out of town. From Dan the Brahman man, we learn about the big three caravans, operating out of the hub, Crimson Caravan, the Fargo traders, and the water merchants. Moving south along the road, we bump into Deputy Tony Fry. He welcomes us warmly, and brags about the hub, claiming that the hub is the biggest city on the coast, possibly even in the world. And it's from Deputy Fry that we learn that the hub is experiencing problems with their caravans. Some of the caravans have come up missing, and then Fry warns us to stay away from the Maltese Falcon. The Maltese Falcon is run by a man named Decker, who apparently runs a Seedy crew. Deputy Fry accuses him of murder no less, but he says his hands are tied. The sheriff won't let him arrest Decker without proof of his crimes. Perhaps if we head to the Maltese Falcon and pay Decker a visit, we can find the proof Fry needs to lock him up. We can then ask him about the missing caravans, and the police here at the hub have no idea what's happened to them. They've just turned up missing without any explanation. One of the caravans, the Fargo traders, has been so affected that they've launched their own investigation, which is being led by a man named Butch. If we'd like to help the investigation into the missing caravans, we can head to the Fargo traders to talk with the man. We can then ask him if he knows where we can find a water chip, but he has no idea that he does say that if anyone knows where we can find a water chip, it's likely the water merchants whom we can find on the southern spoke of the hub. Once we've learned everything we can from Deputy Fry, we can continue south. There are a few more buildings along this road, but these are just the homes of many of the caravan workers, and caravan guards. There's not much we find here. At the end of the road, we arrive at the merchant market downtown. As we saw earlier, this is a huge zone, so we'll start by exploring it in a counterclockwise fashion. This sends us to the west to check in first with the crimson caravan. Ian has been here before. This is the crimson caravan, he says. I did some work for them. They do a lot of high-risk jobs, and it's true, their jobs are high-risk, but they pay the best. Heading inside, we can talk with the man in the blue pants behind the desk. This is Demetri Romara, and he immediately starts flattering us saying, hey, you look strong, are you looking for work? He then talks up being a guard for the crimson caravan. You like the thrill and excitement of battle, don't you? Bullets flying everywhere. Whip in, buy your head, blow in your enemy, and too. See in the fear in their eyes. Ah, that's life. Well, he may be sensationalizing it, but at least he's not pretending that the job isn't dangerous. He fills us in, if we're interested, they pay 600 hub bucks per job each way, so 600 to the destination and 600 if we accompany the caravan back to the hub. Once he finishes the details, we can tell him we're interested or we can accuse him of being a loud mouth, but either way, he simply directs us to the woman in the room next door if we want to start a job. This is Carrie. She apparently doesn't like Demetri very much. In truth, the Fallout official strategy guy says that she's his daughter. I wonder why she doesn't like him so much. And she tells us that the crimson caravan leaves only twice a month on the 3rd and 17th. But they go to a wide range of places. With the crimson caravan, we can instantly discover and travel to Lost Hills, which is the headquarters of the Brotherhood of Steel, Junktown, The Necropolis, and The Angels' Boneyard. Now we do find an option to say, hey, Carrie, I think I'm interested in you. But in order to have success with her, we have to have a charisma of seven or greater. If we do the screen fades to black, we can presume the vault weller and Carrie have a lovely time. And then she gives us one buff out, one men tats, and one psycho. If we choose to take a caravan, we have to wait until the right day, either the 3rd or the 17th. If we arrive at the right time and tell her we're ready, the screen fades out and then we arrive in a battle. The difference is that we are helped by other caravan guards, so these battles may be pretty tough and we may have to go through a number of them, but we do get some help. After the battle, we arrive at our destination. In this case, I arrived at the Necropolis. We can stick around here to explore, or we can take the caravan back to the hub for a return trip. We fight more enemies, but when we arrive, we get another 600 hub bucks. We'll visit the Necropolis later, but for now let's finish exploring the hub. The crimson caravan is connected to the Malte's falcon. However, they only share walls. To enter the Malte's falcon, we do have to go back out to the street and enter through a southern door. And it looks like Ian has been here before. Now the Malte's falcon is the place to be, he says. Good music, good drinks, and good company. Inside, we see that the falcon has a casino. We see roulette tables and slot machines, and we can explore many of the rooms. Heading north of the hallway, we find a number of hotel rooms, and here we find ladies of the evening, hard at work. Heading south towards the bar, we see a man standing outside of a door. I've heard of you, he says. You're the one that took out Gizmo over in Junktown. Killian must have paid you a good sum for that job. Are you here for some work maybe? This sounds interesting, but we remember the warning we got from Deputy Fry, to steer clear of the Malte's falcon. We'll respectfully decline for now. Perhaps we can learn more about the Malte's falcon from some of the locals, and once we have all the information we can, we can then head back for the job. Heading east, we can explore the four primary shops that make up the merchant marketplace. First is the general store, and it's run by a dwarf named Mitch. This is called the All-in-One Store. He sells a variety of general goods, including some skill books, kems, and a coil of rope. He has a decent selection of diverse goods. We'll be seeing him quite often. Heading south, we can go to the Friendly Lending Company, but before we do, we are approached by a shady character standing outside. Psst, come here, he says. This is Lemmy, and he's trying to sell us information. He's happy to provide this information, but as a respected businessman, he says that he has some overhead. We can ask him about a, quote, certain commodity, aka kems, and he's happy to tell us more, or we can ask him where we can find a water chip. And even though he doesn't really have the information, he pretends he does. If we want any information out of him, we got to pay the caps. If we do, he tells us that Vance in Old Town can hook us up with some kems, and he's going to let Vance know that we're coming. Or if we have high enough strength, we can intimidate Lenny into telling us the information for free by flexing our muscles. However, if we choose this option and we fail, he refuses to talk with us anymore. Lemmy's recommendation here can grant us access to the Kim merchant in Old Town. Heading into the friendly lending company, we see that it's run by a man named Lorenzo the Muneficent. He gives out loans at a whopping 10% daily interest, and we only have 10 days to repay the loan. That interest stacks up really quickly. Before we talk with him more about the loan, we can ask him more about the hub. And, contrary to what Deputy Fry says, Lorenzo here says that Dekker operating out of the Maltese Falcon is a great guy and a good source of jobs. He even says that we should tell Dekker that Lorenzo sent us. We'll have to keep that in mind. We learned that Lorenzo here has run-ins with the police. They frequently accuse him of extortion, but his good friend Dekker at the Maltese Falcon always sets them straight. I wonder how Dekker has the power to intimidate the hubs police. Now we learned that the children of the cathedral operate out of a building right next to the water merchants. Lorenzo here is not fond of the children of the cathedral because they're always accusing him of being a thief. He tells us that he comes from the Giovanni family, a family of respectable businessmen, even before the Great War of 2077. Now at any time we can insult him by saying, you sound like a ripoff artist to me in which case he responds, Guido Leon, why don't you show him what ripping off really means? Start with his arms. And with that Lorenzo and his two guards, Guido and Leon attack. Now even though we are in the hub and this place is protected by the hub police, we can freely attack and kill all three of these men without repercussions, presumably because the hub police already think that these guys are sleazy characters. At earlier levels and without the right weapons, this can prove to be a difficult fight, but with at least one good pistol and some metal armor, it should be fairly easy to take out all three of them. Once dead we can pick the lock of the vault door in the back of this building. This leads to a storage room. Inside we find a locker and in the locker nearly three thousand caps. And in the bookcase next to the locker, we find quite a stash indeed. Grenades, first aid kits, cams, flamer fuel, and a tool. When we use a tool it increases our repair skill, which will become important later. But there's a much more profitable way to deal with Lorenzo, instead of goading him into violence, we can take him up on his deal. We can say, I can here for alone. As long as we don't have any outstanding balance with him, he's happy to loan us more money. But since he doesn't know us and can't trust us, he's only willing to loan us 200 hub bucks. As soon as we pay the initial 200 back, he's happy to loan us more. But remember, the interest on this loan is 10% each day. Now, strangely Lorenzo doesn't care if we immediately turn around and give the money right back to him. Which seems like a bit of an oversight to me, because we can take 200, immediately give it back and then take 400, and immediately give that back and then take 600, immediately give that back and so on until he offers us a thousand caps. And as he said, if we wait 10 days and talk with him, we learn that even though we only borrowed 1000 caps, we now have to pay him back over 2000. If we don't have 2000 caps, we can give him all we have. We avoid conflict with him, but he refuses to loan us any money ever again. Or we can refuse to pay, in which case he turns hostile, and we have to kill him again. But in this way, we not only get to loot his vault and the locker within, but we also get the 1000 caps loan that he initially gave us. And because he's dead, we don't have to pay it back. Our total reward for taking care of the situation this way is over 3,800 caps and all of the other loot we found in the bookcase. However, killing Lorenzo here locks us out of completing any of the quests at the Malty is Falcon. Now this may not be a bad thing if we're doing a good karma playthrough, but it's something to bear in mind if we'd like to work with Decker. Additionally, if we kill Decker before talking with Lorenzo, he refuses to loan us any money. So if we want the full experience, it's best to get a loan from Lorenzo and then to do Decker's quests before killing them both if that's what we want to do. Moving out of the friendly lending company, we can enter the southeastern most building here in the middle of the marketplace, with a big guns sign on the outside. Again, Ian gives us some of his sage wisdom. He says this is the weapons shop it's run by Beth. She's good for guns, but better for gossip. I know, I know. She talks enough a lot, doesn't she? But Beth is perfectly amicable, and she gives us some level-headed information about the hub. If we ask her about Decker, she warns us by saying that he's someone we never want to mess with. And we also learn that a friend of hers used to own the Malte's Vulcan before he did. Decker wanted to buy the Malte's Vulcan from him, but the owner refused to sell. Two days later, they found him dead in a back alley of Old Town. She then was on to claim that Decker is really the man who runs the hub, not the merchants and not the police. If we ever cross him, we have to watch out. From her, we learn more about the water merchants. She doesn't have a high opinion of them. She says that their pay is so poor, not because the jobs are safer, but because they're greedy. She claims that the jobs are just as dangerous. And she says that the water merchants came to be because one time long ago, a group of merchants seized control of the water tower, and proclaimed that they were the water merchants, and people had to get water from them. This led to a war called the Merchant War, which waged here in the hub for years, until a man named Ray Green, Justin Green's father, helped negotiate an agreement that ended the war. Remember, Justin Green is the sheriff of the hub. He's the man Deputy Fry told us to check in with if we ever had a crime to report. To make peace during the Merchant War, Justin Green set up a city council. This city council put a limit on the price that the water merchants could charge for water, effectively limiting their power. Beth here is still resentful. She doesn't think the water merchants should be controlling and charging for water at all, but at least with the council in place there's peace. Beth also mentions the missing caravans, but she says that the Fargo traders are missing more of their caravans than the others. She chalks this up to them just being unlucky, but it does explain why Butch of the Fargo traders is the one who launched the investigation. Butch of the Fargo traders actually owns Beth's shop here. She works closely with them, and she says that if we choose to work with Butch, that she'll give us a nice discount at her gun shop. Well, that's great. We'll save our money to buy stuff from her until after we start running caravans for the Fargo traders. She has a decent inventory of low to mid-range weapons on armor, leather and metal armor, a bunch of melee weapons, some simple frag grenades, really the best weapon she has for sale is a 10mm SMG. Stuff we've already come across in our travels. Directly south of the gun shop is Bomzigwana stand. I covered Bomzigwana stand in a dedicated video I made about the guy, which you can watch here. In that video we explore his entire dialogue tree, and understand the true and dark secret that he's paying such a steep price to hide. Just south of Bomzigwana stand is a sandwich board. This must be the jobs board that the greeters at the entrance told us about. Need work? The Fargo traders are currently filling the following positions. Caravan guards must be in good physical condition and dependable. Special position must be observant and willing to travel in dangerous territory. Your own weapons and ammo required for all jobs inquire with rootgar at the Fargo traders office. Sounds interesting we'll have to head that way, but first if we look off to the southwest we see a man inside our ruined building. I was curious about this fellow. Heading on over we learn his name is Irwin. Oh boy can't you leave me alone he says I have enough problems on my hands already. We can offer him our help and he says this is a tragedy believe me nothing is the way it used to be. I have a small farm outside town and a few days ago a bunch of raiders appeared out of nowhere and now use my home as their camp. They killed Pugsley my donkey and they threatened to kill me if I ever dared to come back. Poor Pugsley. We can tell him that we just don't have the time or we can say just tell me where and I'll take care of the rest. Really? You would do that he says? You know I don't dare to go there anymore. Why don't you come back and let me know when it's safe to go back home again. After clicking done we appear at Ian's farm. We see his farm and a well off to the north and a giant warehouse looking shack in the middle. This must be where the raiders are encamped so arming ourselves. Ian, Tyco and the Vaultweller can enter the shack to take on the raiders and immediately they open fire. We don't even find an option to talk with them. There are a total of seven raiders here wearing leather and metal armor. They're not particularly tough but there are so many of them that it's easy to get swarmed so this battle is more a game of strategically positioning ourselves in such a way so as to do the most damage while taking the least. It took me many tries but I was eventually successful without having to come back on a higher level character. This farm however is not marked on the map so once we leave we can never come back which makes it important to loot every container knowing that we can't come back later. We can walk away with 44 Magnum pistols and even 14 millimeter pistols. This side quest is a great way to arm our companions with higher level ballistic weaponry. The 14 mil is the end game weapon I used for Ian for example. When done we can leave the farm and we arrive back at the hub. We can then report back to Erwin. So have you been able to teach those raiders a lesson? Is my home safe again? It sure is buddy we can say. Oh thank you so much. I'm sorry I don't have any riches to give you but here take this rifle for saving my home and despite saying that he's giving us a rifle in fact he actually gives us a 223 pistol which incidentally is the best pistol in Fallout 1. Well the best ballistic pistol anyway significantly better than the 14 millimeter pistol we just got at the farm. It does 20 to 30 damage compared to the 14 mils 12 to 22 and it has increased range. The one drawback is that it has one fewer ammo capacity a total of five compared to the 14 millimeters six. It is a devastating weapon and can be used as an endgame weapon for a strictly guns build but energy weapons are just overall better than ballistic weapons and Fallout 1. So my strategy was to get my gun skill to 100 work my way through the game primarily with this gun until I got my energy weapon skill high enough to be able to use plasma and laser weaponry. Moving northeast from here we could explore the police station. Here we finally meet Sheriff Justin Green. We can tell him that he's doing a great job and he says thank you we try our best though he does admit that it's hard when the thugs have better firepower than they do. Now this may help explain why Beth told us that Decker really runs this town. They're better armed than the police. We find an option here to report a crime but we don't have evidence of any crimes that have been committed yet so we'll have to come back to talk with the sheriff later. Adding back to the middle of the town we can explore the final of these four merchant buildings the furthest one to the north the library run by a woman with a very librarian name Mrs. Tapleton. At the library we can purchase skill books this is a great way to boost our skills earlier in the game however reading a skill book does take up time and reading too many skill books is an easy way to run out of time before finding the water chip. She doesn't sell skill books that raise every skill instead she sells a big book of science a Dean's electronics a first aid manual a scout manual and guns and bullets. After purchasing our books we can ask her if she's xenow water chip she says well actually in my studies I have come across some references to a water chip actually I have in my possession a holo disk that contains a certain amount of information that you might find useful. We then learn from her exactly how to use a holo disk and she's willing to give it to us for 750 hub bucks we can pay her threaten her or use our barter skill to talk her down to 500 with that Mrs. Tapleton the librarian hands us the holo disk we can download the information to our pitboy by right clicking on it and then dragging down to the use icon or by equipping it in an active slot and using it after downloading the information we get a hundred experience and we can access the information by opening up our pitboy navigating to status and then finding vault locations version 34.129 in the data section. Vault locations revision C for the western united states hello and welcome to the latest addition to the western united states vault location pamphlet we hope you enjoy the pamphlet and remember vaults are not just for the upwardly mobile but for everyone vault 12 under the sprawling metropolis of bakersfield lies the technological magnificence of vault 12 built with every amenity in mind for the perspective vaultweller vault 12 was given the pressed vault suit award for attention to preparedness buried far underground the protection that vault will receive will be unprecedented much like all other vaults vault 12 has been fitted with the newest and vault water purification systems able to take even the waste located in the sewers of bakersfield this system is able to deliver over 15,000 gallons of pure refreshing drinking water every day well there we go we didn't find one at vault 15 but look at this somewhere out there is vault 12 lying in the ruins of bakersfield but where is bakersfield all these years after the apocalypse perhaps we can learn more by exploring around town next they have an entry on vault 13 our home vault located in a scenic mountainous region northwest of vault 12 this vault offers an in the supply of pure water to the inhabitants the rumors that the water table in the area could easily be contaminated in the event of a nuclear war have been found by the department of water and power to be completely unfounded in the event that the water in the area were to become tainted remote even though it may be vault 13 has been fitted with the government approved vault water purification system rated to work without significant loss of output for over 250,000 prospective vault wellers should have nothing to fear so vault tech knew that vault 13 was built in a location that was prone to having contaminated drinking water 250,000 hours equals 10,417 days 10,417 days equals 28 and a half years so even if we believe the numbers here provided by vault the purification system inside vault 13 was only meant to last 28 and a half years but here we are in the year 2161 84 years after the nuclear apocalypse and the chip just broke well got a hand into vault tech technology this water chip has well outlived their predictions that sadly it doesn't change the fact that now it's broken and we've got to find a replacement the final memo on this holotape is about vault 15 which we read yesterday but we got another clue in the blurb about vault 13 vault 13 lies northwest of vault 12 well then if we're gonna find vault 12 and hence a water chip we need to head southeast but before we head that way we need to finish exploring the hub and sadly we've run out of time we've covered a lot but there's still so much more about the hub yet to cover we need to talk with the Fargo traders to find out exactly what's happening to those missing caravans and we need to go to the maltees falcon to find out exactly what Decker is doing here we'll tackle both problems in upcoming episodes I publish many videos each and every week here on my channel so if you want to make sure you don't miss my next episode be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs you can't find anywhere else my designs come in a variety of men's women's and children sizes and in a wide array of colors they also come out of the products as well some artphone cases mugs pillows posters prints etc so if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here if you like what I do when you want to support me in a more personal way consider becoming one of my patrons on patreon but more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today thank you so much for watching and I'll see you tomorrow morning bright and early with the next episode