In our last episode, we got some new implants that made us more powerful. We donated genetic material to the gene pool of Vault City. That was fun. And we finally got to explore Vault 8, only to discover that the computers there didn't know where Vault 13 was. They had no record of a Vault 13. They did, however, show us where Vault 15 was. But we know there was a Vault 13. Our ancestor came from there. We've seen the flasks and everything. The terminals in Vault 8 told us that Vault 15 did not have a geck, but our only lead left is to head to Vault 15 to see if from there we can find the location of Vault 13. The location on our Pip-Boy tells us that it's far to the south. But our highwayman makes the trip much easier. Along the way, we pass by the town of Broken Hills. We've heard about this place. The people of Vault 8 told us that they traded for Uranium or with the people of Broken Hills. It's been a bit of a journey. Modders will take a pit stop to get some rest and refuel. But upon arrival, we hit a speed bump. Stepping out of the car, we realized it wasn't a speed bump. Oh crap says the chosen one. Ouch! My Sacrulliac says a ghoul under the car. I'm coming to meet you, Elizabeth, he says. Could somebody help me? I can't read the license plate number. Has anyone seen my gall blatter? Hey buddy, says the ghoul. The name's Lumpy. Could you help me out here for a second? Oh my god, are you okay Lumpy we can say? And he says, oh just peachy. Aside from several compound fractures and a hood ornament lodged several feet up my ass, I'm right is rain. All right says the chosen one. Just relax. Do you need me to help you? Lumpy silently looks us in the eyes. He blanks. He blanks again. I'll take that as a yes we can say. Your dog gone right yes says Lumpy. I can barely move. Now mind you I ain't whining. I've had worse scrapes. Why this ain't nothing compared to that mix up years ago with the Cola truck down south of ways. You should have seen it kid. Caps everywhere. This is in reference to a Fallout 1 special encounter. I covered it in my video on Fallout 1 special encounters. In that encounter we find a new Cola truck crashed in the desert. With bottle caps everywhere. Either Lumpy was struck by it or he was driving the truck. Wow says the chosen one. Imagine someone running across that in the desert. They would have been rich. You bad says Lumpy. Argg. Ow. I hate to put a damper on this scintillating conversation. But if you could help me out from out of the bumper I'd appreciate it. Are you sure says the chosen one? You probably shouldn't move. And he says, oh don't worry about it. Everything will pop back into place eventually. All right get ready says the chosen one. And with that we help Lumpy get out from under the car. I told him we need traffic signs I said he says. But did they listen? No. Let's not listen to all Lumpy. And with that he shuffles off leaving broken hills. Well we've certainly made an entrance. Let's wait till morning so we can explore the town in the light of day. We arrive in a street with buildings lining either side. We'll start by opening the gate to the south. Here we see a bunch of caravan guards just hanging out. Waiting for their next job. Here we find a door inside a building and we can talk to the man in the green shirt. Howdy part he says. What can I do for you? I'm looking for a job we can say. And he says you want a job? Well we got two choices. Shovelyn Brahman done for a day for a hunter box. Or you can escort one of our caravans for 200 bucks. We've got caravans to Gecko, the new California Republic, and Vault City. Well I think I'll shovel crap for a while we can say. And he says all right get started. And a while later he says, Yadon great. Here's your hundred bucks. And if you need anything else just let me know. Now we can always help him out with a caravan to one of the nearby towns. Or we can try bartering with him. He has a small inventory with about 270 bucks. We find a man standing next to him. Howdy friend what can I do for you? Who are you we can ask? And he says I'm Chad. Okay Chad we'll not like to get a job with you. And he says talk to Bill. He'll help you out. Okay. Well we've already talked to Bill. What can you tell me about this place Chad? And he says tell you about Broken Hills. Well I moved here a few years back. Got a job with the Bill. That's the outfitter. And moved up to where I am now. I report to Marcus and the Bill. But I'm responsible for the livelihood of the town. Well he must be an important man to be called the Bill. But that's all Chad can tell us. If we inspect all of the containers in this building they all turn up empty. Heading out we see some stables nearby where they likely keep the Brahmin. And just south of here we can open a door into some sort of plant. Here we find a number of ghouls. Rough finery work is tough they say. Where'd hey go? Has anyone seen hek? Oh looks like Hank from Gecko used to work here. Opening a door in the wall to the north we find a glowing one on the other side. You're not supposed to be here. What do you want he says? We can ask him who he is and he says I'm the supervisor of this refinery. What do you want? What is this place we can ask? And he says this is the refinery of Broken Hills. This is where we purify the ore dug from the mine. What do you want? I want some uranium we can say. And he says that's ridiculous. We're not giving you any. We can kill him here or we can say fine by. The locker end are the containers in this room are empty. And none of the computers say anything. If we inspect them we see a green screen display monitor showing various bits of data. A few bites occasionally show up. Nothing of interest. Well looks like this part of town is a dead end. Heading out we can return to the street. And in the middle of the street we find a red haired dwarf. Hey there friend he says. Haven't seen any jewels or precious metals lying around anywhere have you? No not today we can say. But if I run across any I'll let you know though. Oh well I guess I shouldn't be surprised he says. The market for treasure hunters has really dropped in recent years. The whole death and famine and fight for survival thing really hurts people's sense of adventure. Keep me in mind though if anything comes up. You'll be the first on my list we can say. And then we can ask him what his name is. Me he says I'm Mickey. Swavon, debonair, treasure hunter of Broken Hills. Treasure hunter we can ask. And he says don't tell me you haven't heard of me. You've never been told the tales of the fast Mickey. Of his running gun battles to fisted action and pernicious plundering. I'm afraid I haven't had the pleasure we can say. And he says well you're missing out friend. One of these days I'll have to fill you in on the gory details. I'll be waiting with baited breath we can say. After talking with Mickey we can head to the northern side of the street and explore the furthest house to the left. Inside we find a ghoul. What do you want he says? And his ghoul sure are a cherry bunch. Who are you we can ask and he says me? I'm Brian. I work the generator that powers the plant. I see that's very interesting we can say. Must be rewarding work. Well no it's not not really he says. I mostly just sit here and make sure none of the dials flip out. I make some minor adjustments. I flip some switches. That's about all. Anyone could do it. Well what is this place we can ask? And he says this place is the power station for broken hills. What I do is essentially a maintenance job on the place. Make sure it keeps running. It's pretty damn functional though. Powered by uranium slugs. Uranium slugs we can ask. And he says well with the uranium mine right there and with atomic power being the power of the future it seems only right that we keep up with the times. We might be small but we're progressive. Ever hear of a geck we can ask? And he says a geck never heard of it. I'd imagine no one else here has either. It sounds like an animal or something that has nasty claws though. That's not it at all we can say. Goodbye. Heading into the room adjacent we see a number of machines. These appear to control the power of broken hills. If we try to access it we learn that we probably shouldn't touch the equipment without a good reason. Moving out and heading north we can explore the general store. We find junk guns scrapped on a table under cacola machine and open in the back door. We can enter the proprietor's bedroom. We learn that her name is Liz. When we ask her what she can tell us about the town she says it's a boring little mining town filled with all sorts of undesirables. You want a guided tour? Talk to Steve or someone. Wow we can say what a crabby one. We can inspect her inventory. She has a selection of early game stuff and about a hundred dollars to barter with. That's about it for Liz the general store merchant. So heading out we can turn right and passing a well in the center of town we find a super mutant holding a minigun. What do you want human? Who were you? I'm Marcus. Help build the place. Now I'm Sheriff. You helped build this place? That must have been a long time ago. Long story. Wanted short or the whole thing? Hell I'm not too busy. Let's hear it all. Right. After the master and the vats were destroyed I wandered a bit. No place to go. One day got attacked by this full wearing power armor. That was Jacob from the brotherhood of steel. He twerned some oath to destroy muties. Now he tested for a while. Probably a day or two. After a while we just started laughing. What was the point? Then what? Now we became friends. Headed off together. Then other people started following us. Guess they figured if they weren't safe with a mutie and a steel knight. Safe just wasn't going to happen. So you set up here. Why? You're any in mind. I knew there was one around from old maps. Now anybody's welcome here. Long as they act right. Others might not think much of us. But nobody's more free than we are. There you go. Wait, you were friends with a guy from the brotherhood? Damn right. Best friend I ever had. Yeah right. You would have dipped him just like everyone else. Hell yes I would have. I don't want a great mutiny would have been. I don't think he'd be happy to hear you say that. We had this argument all the time. I missed that hard hit. What about the master's hatred for humans? You're talking a long time ago. The world's moved on. You want to hear ancient history. Definitely. Right. Well, never really hated humans. We just had a better way. These new governments they think they've got all the answers. Blah blah. Been there. Seen that. Got the scars. So what was this better way? The master wanted to elevate everyone to his level. So we wouldn't fight each other anymore. He was convinced we wouldn't do it by ourselves. Couldn't. We had to be forced to evolve. Do you agree with the master? While Jacob was alive, I thought the master was wrong. But it seems that while some men can heed the call and rise above it all, most just run away. So you think the master was right? And Jacob heard the call and embraced it. So did the Vault Tweller. But no matter how many rise above, the masses will always destroy them. Right. Maybe. The master just wanted everyone to see clearly. The Vault Tweller ended that dream. Sounds like you admired and hated the Vault Tweller at the same time. You're right. If all humans fought for what they believed in like that, we wouldn't have needed the master's plan in the first place. You were once a human. How can you just define what the master did to you? Oh, my memories of being a human artist clear as they once were. But I remember, pettiness, hatred, jealousy. I prefer being a mutant. So you think the master's plan was right? It was flawed. We should have only taken the best. Look around. Most butants didn't have the mind or will to withstand the strain. I've only had chosen better. The master wanted to enslave humanity. But don't forget, I knew the folks involved. They were the best humanity had to offer. Your people are going to tell the story a different way. Right. So why aren't you mutants in town attacking me? Oh, what's Sinkhole are you from? Muties and normals made peace a long time ago. Oh, I'm from a village to the northwest. You ever get back there, tell them the wars over. It's been over a long time. My village was founded by the original Vault Tweller. The original Vault Tweller? You mean the one who killed the master and destroyed the vats? Uh, yes. Not a problem. Like I said, that was a long time ago. Damn right, it was founded by the original Vault Tweller. Gonna do something about it, Mutie. Well, let me make this clear. Nothing's going to happen here unless you start it. Just stay civilized while you're in my town. I'm not afraid of you. No reason to be, unless you cross me or someone in my town. Be civilized. That's all I ask. So what's the news around town? I got a little trouble with the mine. If you're interested in helping fix it, go talk to Zeyas, the mine foreman. Where can I find him? Usually at the mine, sometimes the saloon. Got anything else? What exactly do you want? Okay, we got some folks missing. No idea what's happened. Find him. Get $500. $500 sounds good. Note though, that we get a different reward. If we refuse the money. Great. Let me know when you found something. Right? You look strong and adventurous. You want to travel with me? Too many people. I've done my traveling with the order. All right, so Marcus won't join our party because we have too many companions. Looks like we either need to get rid of one or somehow bump our charisma. However, even if our charisma is high enough, he says, Now there's too much going on right now. When things calm down, then I just might. So he won't join our party until we complete the quests here in Broken Hills. We'll be back from Marcus later. Marcus here gave us two tasks. There's a problem with the mine, and it fix that we need to talk to Zias, and some people went missing. Let's explore a bit to see if we can find out exactly what happened. Just north of the Wellentown, we find a town prison. Here we find some mutant guards. They warn us to put our weapons away, so putting them away real quick. They're not very friendly. Both of them tell us that we shouldn't be hanging around here. We can talk to the guy walking around. The game describes him as a big, burly mutant with a sense of purpose in his eyes. Can I help you? He says, Uh, just looking around, we can say. And he says, yeah, well, look somewhere else. We got criminals here. Go. Oh, all right, we can say. Many of the cells are empty, but two of the cells at the top are full. If we try to fiddle with the locks, the guard races to us. You, what the hell are you doing? Get the hell out of here, he says. Why exactly do they have people imprisoned here? We can talk to these prisoners through the bars. Talking to the guy to the right first, the game describes him as a scruffy, dirty, angry man. What do you want, he asks? Who are you, we can ask? And he says, I'm Frank. I'd ask you who you are, but I don't care. Oh, a tough guy, eh, we can say. And he says, yeah, I'm a tough guy. If I weren't in jail, I'd prove it to you. You think you're tough? Think you can prove it, loser? Of course we can say. The law around here is based on Mutant Love, he says. Do you hate Mutants? Uh, yes, we can say. Yeah, he says, then go talk to Jacob, the chemist. I'll catch you later. But wait, we can say, tell me about Broken Hills. Place used to be a paradise, he says. Then the Mutants came and turned it into a crap hole. Now we're all expected to forget about the past and live peaceful with them. Not me, live shrie or die. Not quite what I was looking for, we can say, but thanks anyway. What can you tell me about Marcus? Marcus tells everyone he helped discover the city, he says. He didn't. It was humans here first, and him and his crowd moved in and took over and expected everyone else to bend over and let the Mutants give it to him. Marcus is the ring later of that whole circus. When done with Frank, we can talk with the guy in the cell next to him. The game describes him as a scruffy man in worn-down clothing. What, he says? Who are you, we can ask? And he says, Manson. Rebel against society. What are you rebelling against, we can ask? And he says, society wants us to believe that humans and mutants are meant to live together. But the mutants are not to kill us. At least, that's what Frank says. You really like Frank, huh, we can say. And he says, yeah, I think is one of the wisest people I ever knew. Jacob's smart, but he ain't as straight up as Frank. Well, why are you and Jail, we can ask? And he says, I'm here because me and Frank were working against what society wants us to believe. Well, tell me about Broken Hills, we can ask. And he says, Broken Hills, lived here all my life. That's how I know all the bad stuff that goes on here. That's why I know how evil the Mutants all are. It's a good thing there are some of us who see the truth. Yeah, I'll say, we can say, fight the power, huh? That's right, he says. We gotta, um, think for ourselves. That's what Frank and Jacob always say. Why are you called Manson, we can ask? And he says, back in the olden days, there was a guy who told us all we had to think for ourselves. My mom and dad said he was related to me. He died in prison, but he was really influential to me. People said he was really smart. I think they were right. I mean, look at me. Wow. So he really is named after that Manson. Okay. Um, yeah, we can say, look at you. And he says, what would you know, you jerk? Get the hell out of here before you get hurt. So these guys are in prison for their mutant hatred. But I wonder if they're right. Are the mutants really trying to kill everyone? Heading out and moving right. We find a house with a mutant inside. He says, pfft. I'm hoping he's saying that, and that's not just a sound effect. But then he says, what the hell do you want? Get out of my house, pinky. Gosh, they're not really nice to people here. There are some bedrooms to the north. Both of the people inside say that the town seems so much nicer lately. I wonder why. Moving south, we find what appears to be a restaurant. The two mutants inside seem to be having a bit of a yelling match. The mutant in the kitchen cooking up. Accuses the one in the dining area of not having very many brains. Do you want the back side of my hand? Woman says the mutant, which is weird because I thought they lost their genders by becoming mutants. But then the other one says, I don't want anything associated with your back side. I swear, one of these days I'm gonna head up and leave. Then what's his lazy hide gonna do? Where's my cat's paw? He says, you threw it out again, didn't you? What do you need that filth for when you've got me right here, she says? After exploring the outside seating area, the guy says, I love your boogums. And she says, I love you two sugar plumps. Looks like a healthy mutant relationship there. After exploring the restaurant, we can head inside Marcus's house. We don't find much until we enter his bedroom. Then in his bookshelf we find, oh okay. The game describes it as being the rubber doll. And it looks like a life size rubber doll. And it's naked. We'll just put that back. There we go. Next we can explore the building directly south of this one. Inside we find a bar with a ghoul bartender at a couple of patrons. Sitting at a table in the bar, we find a super mutant. Help you out with something he says, hey buddy, who are you? We can ask. And he says, I'm Francis. I'm the arm wrestling champ of this town. I've got a running bet that no one can beat me. I'll bet you haven't had many takers we can say. And he says that's the truth. Looks like there's no one in this whole godforsaken wasteland who'll go for it either. We can offer to send a champion his way someday. And then ask him what there is to do in this place. He says, what to do in town? Well, let's see. There's the saloon, the mines, the refinery, and the caravan. We haven't got much time for fun here. And what we do have, we generally devote to drinking. Also, we work on human-slash mutant relations. Human-slash mutant relations we can ask. And he says, you may have noticed that we've got both mutants and humans in the city. We're trying to work it so that we all live in peace. Unfortunately, there are some who want to destroy that. Our leader, Marcus, helped found the city. Do you want to hear more? Yeah, tell me more we can say. Sometimes I worry about the people here he continues. It's too hard for some of them to get past their fear. Word has it that there's a storm brewing down the pike. But that might just be rumour. Now that we're done chatting, we can say, are you up for an arm wrestle, Mr. Iron Pecs? And he says, I'm always ready. You want to go? Of course I do, we can say. And he sizes us up and gauges our musculature. I don't think so, pal. It'd just be a waste of my time, he says, piss off. Then, looking at the massive mutant, we realize we wouldn't have stood a chance. Time to walk away while we've still got our dignity. This is what happens if we don't have stats high enough to even have a shot at defeating him. We need high strength, endurance and luck to even start the challenge, and about nine strength and at least eight endurance to defeat him. If our stats are high enough to accept the challenge, but not high enough to defeat him, we can again initiate a challenge. And instead of dismissing us, he says, you think you can take me, eh? All right, you win, you get this power fist. I win, and you're my Gimp for the night. Do you want to do it now? Or would you like to take some time to rest? If we agree, the screen goes black and we appear at the bar. Lycam Francis? No, not with your tongue, says the bartender. Francis says, her, her, her, her, her, her. The chosen one says, I'm, her. Hey, Francis says the bartender. You should try separating the arm from the shoulder. Grown says Francis. Her, says the chosen one. Over the top, Francis says the bartender. Over the top. Haga, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. Says Francis. Heeeeeeeach! Says the chosen one. I think I hear a tendon getting ready to pop, says the bartender. Grown says Francis. Ow, gee, says the chosen one. Ha, ha, ha, gotcha, says Francis. Where'd he go, Francis? Says the bartender. Ow, my arm says the chosen one. And after the battle, the screen goes black. And Francis says, you lost. No big surprise. Time to come home with me. Oh, the screen goes black. And we appear in that bedroom inside Marcus's house. Oh, so this was Francis' bedroom. Our Pipboy tells us that we feel sore. We seem to be carrying a memento of our visit with Francis. And then opening up our inventory, we find... ...oh. A ball gag? A questionable sexual device. If we need to ask, we don't want to know. And it weighs two pounds. Oh, lovely. And of course, this is the room where we found the uh... ...rubbered doll. It didn't belong to Marcus. It belonged to Francis. We were his rubbered doll for the night. But if our stats are high enough, and we challenge him to arm wrestle, the bartender says, Ouch, right in the metacarpoles. Francis says, Ergh, the chosen one says, Over the top, Francis. Over the top, says the bartender. Francis, Francis. Francis, he continues. Ergh, says Francis. I'm in a homin' homin' homin' Says the chosen one. And then it sort of just repeats itself. Until it lasts, the bartender says, Well, I've never seen that happen before. Francis says, Ow, my arm. And the chosen one says, Ha-ha, gotcha. The screen goes black. And when we reappear, Francis says, Well, pal, that's the first time anyone's ever beaten me in a fair contest. You win. Take this. Well done. I tell you what, buddy. I ain't seen an arm like that in ages. You use that right she'll go far. Enjoy the glove. And instead of a ball gag in our inventory, we find a power fist. A big, frigger power fist from Beetcoe, considered by many to be the ultimate weapon to use an unarmed combat. Others are just scared, powered by small energy cells. So does it say something that this guy with the ball gag and the rubber doll also has a power fist? Like, what would he use the power fist for? I can't even imagine what would need that much fisting. And anyway, having one or lost the competition, we can head on over to the bartender. We see a ghoul wearing an apron. Howdy stranger. Welcome to town. What's your name? Oxhorn, we can say. And he says, well, Oxhorn, please, to meet you. I'm Phil. I own this place. Now, what'll it be? He sells Nukakola beer and rot cut. Or we can say nothing. And he says nothing. Ha ha. You know, park yourself here without drinking something, friend. I gotta pay the bills too. Let's try that again. So what'll it be? And again, we can try saying nothing. And he says, till you're buying, I ain't talking. So what's your pleasure? Oh, all right. We can have a Nukakola. We buy it for two dollars. And we can give him a tip. We'll go ahead and tip him two bucks. He says, wow, thanks. And a thing else I can do for you? Now we can ask some questions. What's been going on in town? We can ask. And he says, what's been going on in town? Well, a couple of loons have been locked up for spreading hate propaganda. The mind's purifiers are down. Caravans all over the place. That's about normal. We can then ask him what there is to do around here. And he says, what to do? What to do? Let's see. You look like a pretty burly guy. I'm bidding you could arm wrestle with Francis. He is the mutant sitting over there. Apparently, he's got a prize of some sort. Interested? Go talk to Francis. Yeah, we've been there. We found that prize. No thanks. Then he says that there are some people who went missing. We are not sure where they are. If you could find them, I'm sure there'd be something in it for you. Do you want to start with that? Go talk to Marcus. Okay, well, we already got that quest from Marcus. And finally, he says, the mind's air purifiers are broken. You might want to go talk to Zias. The mind foreman about that. We already got that one from Marcus. We can ask if there's anything else. And he says there's always a caravan headed out some place. If you want to be part of one of those, you can talk to Wold Bill the Outfitter. Other than that, we haven't got much to do in this place. Sorry. And we've already met Bill the Outfitter. After talking with Phil, we can explore the rooms in his pub. We find barrels of booze in a storage room. That's about it. Heading out, we can move south. Here we find a clinic. The room to the north has four empty beds. And opening the door to the south, we meet Doc Holiday. Hi there. I'm Doc Holiday. How could I help you? He says. We can ask him what he does here. And he says, what do I do here? You're in a hospital. I'm wearing a doctor's coat. I'm covered with blood. There are sharp pointy things lying all around. Either I'm a successful killer or a fair doctor. Take your pick. Great. Love the sarcasm. I guess I'll call you a doctor then. And he says that's right. I'm a doctor. Good to see that intelligence is alive and well in the post-nuclear world. Ha, we can say. And it's kicking around inside the body of a 70-year-old man. We see a glint of laughter in his eyes behind his glasses. Don't see it too many other places these days, he says. The young of the world, for example. Hey old man, don't push me, we can say. And he says, relax, kid. Just joking around with you. He does the usual doctor stuff. But we can ask him to tell us about the town. And he says, let's see. I was born here years ago. Place was just getting started. I picked up when I was a teen and told around the place for a while. Met a woman fell in love. She died of sickness. I decided then that I was going to become a doctor. So then I traveled to San Francisco and studied under the Chinese there. An old gentleman by the name of Mr. Fung taught me everything I know about medicine. He also taught me some wisdom. Then I came back here and watched Marcus build the town from the shanties I remember from my youth into the sprawling metropolis you see before you. I saw people attracted by promises of wealth. I saw people grow up and die. I saw the currents of history. So that means we can say. And he says so that means that I don't know most of the new people these days. Most of my memories are just that memories. We can say, oh, well, thanks for the story. And he says, no, thank you for listening to me ramble. Next time you're here in Need Healin, it's on the house. All right, we got a free healing out of it. We can then ask him for any town gossip. And he says you'd be surprised what people say when they're in pain. Oh, yeah, we can say like what? And he says surprisingly little. Sorry, but when I'm concentrating on healing someone, I don't usually pay attention to their innermost secrets. Oh, well, that was disappointing. After exploring the hospital, we can head out and continue south. Here we find the pharmacy. And inside we find Jacob. Hi there, I'm Jacob, the chemist of the chemist's pharmacy. What can I do for you? He says we can ask him to tell us about broken hills. And he says, why don't you tell me how you feel about mutants first? We can say, I'm ambivalent about them. And he says, maybe if I tell you the real history, you'll change your mind. Okay, tell me we can say. And he says, all right, in that case, I'll give you the real history. A human named Jacob, I was named after him, founded this place. The mutant named Marcus came along and forced everyone under his rule. He's been ruling here ever since the master was destroyed. He puts down anyone who disagrees with him. Or they just disappear. The place looks civilized on the top of things. But the truth is that it's a killing ground for bloodthirsty mutants. There's a friend of a friend who had friends who disappeared after speaking up. Oh, well, that sounds like an anecdote we can trust. We all pretend that this is a civilized town he continues, that we're all on the up and up. But we all live in fear of the mutant rage. Every day there are fewer and fewer humans. We can say, but all the mutants I've seen look old and decrepit. And he says, that's because they're trying to fool you, friend. They're trying to fool you. Why not fight back against them then? We can say. And he says, actually, we are. Some friends of mine and I are planning to strike a blow. That will rid this town of mutants. But we need to get some friends out of jail. Are you with us? We can resolve this a number of ways. We can say, no, and I'm turning you in. You're crazy. In which case he says you are, eh? I don't think so, traitor. And then he and his wife, Aileen, turn hostile. But they don't actually attack. They run away in fear. We can avoid killing them by simply leaving his house. Or we can say, no, I'm not on your side. In which case he stops talking with us. And when we next try to talk with him, he says, if you're not going to help us, we ain't going to help you. And as wife Aileen says, you just better keep your mouth shut if you know what's good for you. The final option is to agree to his plan. But before we go break in people out of prison, let's explore the rest of Broken Hills to see if we can find any evidence that corroborates his claims or any evidence that proves him wrong. With the western side of town explored, we can move on over to the eastern side. On the other side, we find more shops lining this street, heading to the southern building first. We see more flies gathered on this building than we have ever seen in any one place. There must be something tempting within. Inside we find a greasy, sweating man. His name is Eric, and on the floor of his house, we find a fuzzy, alphas painting. Eric doesn't seem to mind if we take it. Instead, when we talk to him, he says, come in already. Close the door behind you. Don't let in the flies. All right, all right. No need to shout, we can say. And he says, sorry, I'm just a little on edge. All these damn flies and no air conditioning. If I just had a little more power, I'd be able to shake them. But I don't. Who are you, we can ask? And he says, I'm Eric. I used to run the hotel in town, but I had to sell it because of my fly problem. I also ran the tavern, but had to get out of that, too, for the same reason. Finally, I used to run the generator, but the flies kept getting into it. Where did the flies come from, we can ask? And he says, they come here because for some odd reason, I exude fly nutrients. My body is rich with food for them. And this sweating just makes it worse. That's just plain nasty. We can aptly say, why not take a bath or something? And he says, I've tried that. I've tried everything. The only thing that keeps the flies off me is not to sweat. And when I don't have enough power to keep cool, I can't. Well, where's this power generator we can ask? And he says, there's a power generating station downtown that controls the power to the city. If you could just go there and get permission to give me a little more energy for my air conditioning, I'd be grateful. How grateful, we can say, cash or equipment. And he says, I could scrape a little something together for you if you did it. I can't promise much, but then it's not too huge a favor, either. You've got a deal we can say. Just make sure you have something for me when I get your power back on for you. And he says, I can't tell you how grateful I am to you. Please let me know as soon as you're done, so I can turn up the air conditioning and take a bath. Heading downtown, we can go back to power management to talk with Brian. What do you want, he says? Say, Eric asked me to adjust the power rash into his house, we can say. He said that he's sweating too much. Eric wants more power, says Brian. Eric can't have more power. This is a very delicate balance of energy we run through here. And if Eric gets more power, then the hospital shuts down. Or the lights, or the mine. We can't have that. But he's suffering, we can say. Maybe he just ought to bathe more often. Good day, says Brian. So there's no way you can make a couple of small adjustments we can ask. And he says, no, I'm afraid not. The needs of the city outweigh the needs of the one. Okay, thanks, Spock. In any case, we're right to invoke logic. Logic clearly dictates that the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few. That's very utilitarian of you, we can say. I'll let him know he's not important. Good day. Heading back to the eastern side of town, we can go to talk to Eric. Yes, he says. I talked to Brian and he said, the power rations are so tight that he can't possibly allow you to increase your share. He said that, did he? Says Eric. Well, you tell him that the generator is uranium powered, and that the minuscule amount of energy I require would barely register on the generator. And tell him I want my power. We'll do. Nice speech. Says the chosen one. And heading back downtown, we can again talk to Brian. I just went and talked to Eric, we can say. And he said that he used to run the place and that there's so much power in the uranium slugs that you'd never notice the small drain he'd take. So cough up the power. And Brian says, well, sure, technically that's true, but, but nothing, we can say, you're just lazy. Get a move on. You don't have to be mean about it, says Brian. He ducks his head and turns a dial. There. Please tell him to stop complaining now. We can end the conversation two ways. You're all heart big guy, we can say, or go shove it up the lips you never kiss with. No thanks to you for making this harder than it had to be. Either way, we managed to figure out how to route more power to Eric's home, and we gain a thousand experience points. Heading back downtown, we can check in with Eric. You're done with the generator? Thank you so, so much. I can't even begin to describe how grateful I am. The common way to express thanks we can say is through gifts of money and equipment. And Eric says, Francis the mutant has a power fist. He keeps betting it in arm wrestling contests. The problem is being stronger than him. If you're interested, I can give you some pills that should give you an edge over him. We can either decline the money, which grants us plus 10 karma, take the cash, which is 150 bucks, or we can say, sure thing. These pills are called buffouts, he says. They'll increase your strength, but your mind will suffer for a little bit. Don't take too many, or you might get hooked. Good luck with the fist. Thanks in so long, we can say, and with that, we get one piece of buff out. Highly advanced steroids. While in effect, they increase strength and reflexes. Very habit forming. Well, we've already had our fun times with Francis, so we'll just take the buff out and save it for later. Behind his house, we find a shed, and inside we find a manhole leading underground. All we see are ants down here, but you know what, this might become important later. So we'll come back in a bit. Adding back topside, we can explore the next house, but it's empty, safe for a mutant hating woman. Adding into the next house over, we find a man who says, I can't believe that human and mutant relations have sunk so low. What do the ghouls think about all this? Good question. Crossing the street, we find a mutant home. There's nothing in his house, so moving to the next house over, we find a paranoid man who says, I heard the mutants are getting together to destroy the humans. Could this be correct? Crossing to the other side of the street, we find a large restaurant. There's a mutant in here. In one room, we find two lockers, both of which are empty. The same goes for all the lockers and containers in the bottom rooms. So heading out and moving to the building just east of us, we find a man in a lab coat with a pet scorpion. What does it you want? Out with it. I'm a busy man, he says, who are you we can ask? And what's with the scorpion? I am the professor, he says. What I do is apply to intelligence testing. I create chemical compounds to increase intelligence. I'm trying to sum out on this rad scorpion here, after my failure with the plant. You tried it out on a plant, we can say. And it says, of course, I tried it out on a plant. I'm trying to increase intelligence from the ground up. I see we can say, have you made anything that works? And he says, yes, I have. Thank you very much. You ever hear of men tats? I helped develop a method for easy mass production of that cam. And others, lots of others. Really? A cam that's been available from before the war, and you helped mass produce it. Okay, sure, I believe you. All right, all right, we can say, say, I'd like to try out my skills against your scorpion. And he says, you wish to take a test, eh? Do you want to test your manual dexterity, your perception, or your intelligence? We can start by trying to test our agility. Very well, he says, I'll be matching you against the scorpion. You will both attempt to unlock those boxes. Good luck. Let's do it, we can say. With that, the trial begins. The chosen one tries unlocking one, while the scorpion tries unlocking the other. But the scorpion was just too fast. Damn it, says the chosen one. And the scorpion says, click, click. How the hell did you pick a lock with claws? The chosen one can say. And the scorpion says, chitter. You lose. Scorpion 1, Oxford 0, says the professor. We can try again. And this time, if we are successful, the chosen one says, woo-hoo, beat that, Mr. Exo Skeleton. We have proven that we are just as agile as the red scorpion, and we gain 500 experience. Well, that was a tie, says the professor. Next, we can try the eye test. He says, right, you'll stand behind this rail. And you and the scorpion will tell me the letters you read from top to bottom, left to right. Got it. Let's go, we can say. With that, we appear on the other side of the rail. The chosen one says, easy WTO DFE RTFPYJM. Yes, that's correct, says the professor. And the scorpion says, chitter, chitter, click, click, chirp, tail swing. And the professor says, correct. Good boy, good boy. Your more skilled skills are improving nicely. Well, that we have proven that we are just as perceptive as the red scorpion. And we gain 500 experience points. Next, we can take the intelligence test. He says, you and the scorpion are playing a game of my own devising. I call it chess. Are you ready? Man, this guy seems to have invented everything. Even chess, okay. We appear behind the table and bolt the scorpion and the chosen one do their moves. And then the scorpion inexplicably says, checkmate, click. What? Says the chosen one. You cheated. Drop the assore loser says the professor. So we've not only got a scorpion that can play chess, but also one who can say checkmate. This is some professor. Well, his dog on scorpion is just too smart for us. We'll have to find some other way to win the chess game. After exploring the lab, we don't find much. We can continue exploring these buildings and account our clockwise circle, but we walk away empty handed. The first room to the right, empty. The second room to the right, empty. Heading to the second room to the north, we find hay all over the ground. It must be a stable of some kind. There's a garden or farm next to this. And as we get close, a plant calls out to us. Come on, you scared of a plant, he says. Hi, nice weather we've been having. Huh, says the plant. Are you connected to that scientist in any way we can say? And he says, oh, yes, the professor. He grew me from a tiny spore and nurtured me. But I realized from an early age that if I were to act as smart as I truly am, he'd cut me into pieces to examine me. So I played dumb and got planted out here. It's nice, he says, but I'd like to branch out a little. You know, maybe get planted someplace else. Branch out indeed says the chosen one. And the plant says, so does he still have the scorpion? That thing is a mean chess player. It has a lot of bark and plenty of bite if you know what I mean. But I know how to beat him. If you do me a favor, I'll tell you how. Really, we can say how? And the plant says, my fine friend. If you will replant me near the ghouls home over there, I will be happy to impart my deep rooted knowledge of chess. Oh, God. It's a deal we can say. Delightful says the plant. I'm very, very pleased. Just find yourself a shovel and come on back. When you're done, maybe I can tell you a secret. My friend, I do hope you continue to flower. Um, right. So long, we can say. Now to find a shovel. Exploring the room directly south of this, we find a guy who says, who are you? What are you doing in my house? I'm Oxhorn, we can say. And he says, great, great. Please to meet you. But it looks kind of distracted. Hey, look, you're an adventuring type, right? He says, uh, yes, we can say. And he says, the reason I ask you see is because my wife is missing. I don't know where she is. She's been gone for days. I've asked around town and no one has seen her. Can you find her for me? What's in it for me, we can say. And he says I can give you 500 bucks. That's my life savings. That's good enough we can say. I'll take it. Here's the money he says. Now please, please, please, find my wife and tell me where she is. Maybe she's checked up with someone else. Or maybe she's left me, but I just need to know. You've got it, pal. We can say what she look like. She's blonde, sexy, and has the most incredible singing voice. I last saw her walking around this area. She didn't like mutants or ghouls. So she wouldn't have been near any of them. Nobody knows where she went. It's like she just disappeared. Huh, so she was walking around this area somewhere. Looks like we'll have to keep our eyes open. Heading out and moving to the next house over. We find a number of ghouls inside. One ghoul says it's cold and there are wolves after me. Hello! I'm cold and there are wolves after me. I'm cold, I'm cold. I'm cold. I'm cold. Right. The other one says you like muties. I like muties. Heading into the southern room. We find a ghoul behind a table. How do they're, kiddo, and welcome to the old ghouls home? Old ghouls home we can say? And he says it's kind of a joke. There aren't any ghouls but old ghouls. We're all sterile, see? But we're incredibly long-lived. We're the first and last generation of ghouls. And this is a place for those of us who just want to rest for a while. Have you ever heard of a ghett? We can ask. And he says, yep, used to have some. But all the pure, strained humans stole him to make their own little guard and a vegan. Vault city might be your best bet to find one. Either there or NCR to the south. Well, we've already crossed Vault City off our list. Looks like we can try checking NCR. Who are you? We can ask. And he says, I'm Typhon. You ever hear a set? He used to run the old time town of the Crompless. I'm his son. God born before the radiation hit us. So I grew up mutated. Ain't never been any other way for me. Uh, wait a minute. ghouls can grow once they become ghouls. So ghoul children don't stay children forever? Someone should tell this to Billy the Kid in a fridge. Tell me about set we can say. Total bastard would be a fine way to describe the old man, he says. Being turned into a ghoul from the radiation didn't do much for a sense of humor or sense of authority. Let me tell you. Of course it kind of screwed up everyone's brains. I think growing up ghouly made it a little easier for me. Anything else you can tell me we can ask? Back in my run-in days, he says, I won quite a few races. Made quite a bit of cash. Long time ago, I stashed all my winnings not too far from here. If someone was to do me a favor or two, I might tell him where that treasure is. What kind of treasure we can ask? And he says, what kind of treasure? Money, kid. Lots and lots of money. Enough to satisfy any sane person. What's the catch we can say? Kid, you gotta do me a favor first. What is it? I'm an old guy, he says. And I don't get out too much. Ain't got much chance for action. You know what I mean? So what I want is a cat's paw magazine. Find me one. Oh great. All right, we can say. I'll be back. Well, I think I've got a stack of cats paw in the car so we can head all the way to the town's entrance where we parked our highway, man. We should all remember, Seth. He played an important role during the events of Fallout 1. We met him at the Necropolis, and apparently this Typhon is his son. The Necropolis, as we recall, was built over the ruins of Vault 12. It was there with a Vaultweller finally found a watership for his vault. But according to Typhon here, they also had a geck, but that geck was stolen. We know that Vault City used the geck that they had in their Vault Vault 8, so I wonder which Lush Metropolis was created using the geck from Vault 12. Back at the entrance, we can rummage through our truck, and while we're here, we can not only get the cat's paw magazine, but also, grab a shovel. Heading back to the other side of town, we can first go to the garden. Talking to the plant, he says, My friend, has the sun been shining upon you? How does your day flower? Are you ready for the move? I certainly am. And with a shovel in our inventory, we can say, Let's go. I'm so excited I could release a spore cloud all over myself. Let's go! Says the plant. Goals looking at naughty magazines and plants releasing spore clouds all over themselves. This is Fallout 2. Ooh, the soil here feels so different. Cleaner somehow, says the plant. Probably because I don't have to share it with these other plants. Ah, oh, yes, if you ever run across the professor and his scorpion, remember this chest maneuver. It's called the Flying Liver Attack, and the scorpion can't stand against it. Thanks, I'll try that out. By plant, we can say, then, before handing the magazine over to Typhon, we can go back to the doctor and challenge the scorpion to another game of chess. And now that we know the secret attack, we win. And checkmate, says the chosen one, but the scorpion attacks. Chitter, kill plant. Click, click, click, he says. I guess that means he knows where we learned the move. We have to defend ourselves. And if we kill the scorpion, the poor doctor races out of the room and says, how, how could you kill my scorpion like that? I was close. So close. Well, I do feel bad for this poor professor, but not that bad. By beating the scorpion at chess, we have proven that we can subvert a red scorpion that is more intelligent than us. And we earn 500 experience. Now we can head across the street back to the old ghouls home to talk with Typhon. Well, he says, do you have my Katzpa magazine yet? Yep, here you go. And we give him the magazine. Thanks for the mag, kid. Let me get back to you in an hour or so. Oh, okay. If we don't like waiting, we can try talking to him again. I ain't done yet, kid. Sheesh. Cat and old ghoul have his privacy. Oh, let's just leave him here for a bit. It's just then that we see something peeking out of the garden where we dug up the plant. Heading that way, we find a ladder leading to a cave system below. This cave is also filled with ants. After spending what feels like an hour exploring every corner and killing every blasted ant, at length, we find a small room completely filled with dead bodies. We can examine each of these corpses individually. We see a dead body. It appears to have been chewed by animals. The guy in the green shirt has nothing. The guy in the brown shirt has nothing. The guy with the green pants has nothing. But then we find a blonde haired woman's corpse with her legs ripped off with a note on her inventory. You see the body of a young broken hills woman. As we read the note in our inventory, we can read the contents on our Pip Boy. Zeiss, Marcus isn't doing anything about that mutant hater Jacob and his damn conspirators. First, they disable the air purifier, and then what? I found their secret meeting tunnels. I figure a body or two down there could implicate Jacob. If you want in, let me know. And burn the damn note this time. Signed... Frances. With this revelation, the chosen one exclaims. Oh my god! If I tell Marcus about this note, the town will go up in flames. I'd better just talk to Zeus and Frances about it and get some answers. We don't find much else in these caves, though we do find a ladder in the southwestern corner. This ladder leads up to one of the houses we explored in town. So the humans were all meeting in these caves. Heading back down, we find another ladder in the furthest southwestern corner. We recognize this ladder. This is the one that led up to the shed that we explored earlier. So Jacob and a lean were right. The people who went missing were murdered by the mutants. Well, Frances at least, and maybe Zeus. With this shocking revelation, we need to now track down Zeus and Frances to get some answers. We find the uranium mine we've been hearing all about. On the northern side of the eastern end of town, we see a number of super mutant workers milling about outside. And nearby is the mine foreman's shack. And inside, we find a tough-looking old mutant. You the new guy in town, he says? That's right, we can say. And he says, right. Well, I'm Zeus. Now that we're introduced, you any good with your hands, we've got a problem with our purifier and the lower levels of the mine. But we haven't got the parts to fix it or the protective gear to avoid being overwhelmed by the raiden gas that's been building up. Wait, raiden gas is a radioactive gas. I thought super mutants were immune to radiation as the consequence of them being super mutants. Guess not. But we can still offer to help him. I'm not too shabby at repairing stuff. What'll it take? Really, he says? Would you do it for me? And more importantly, for broken hills? What's in it for me, we can ask. And he says, 500 bucks. How's that sound? Note that if we agree to do this for free, instead of the money, the quest reward is a combat shotgun. If however we want the money, he says 500 it is then. Take half now. I'll give you the other half when you're done. Go to New Reno and look for Ren's Seco. He's got tools just lying around his office. He should be able to help you with the parts. Oh, we've got to go to New Reno? Looks like we won't be able to fix the purifier today. Before we leave, however, we can confront him with the note we found. Zaeus, I've got a note with your name on it. Founded on a dead woman in the tunnels. Would you care to comment? And he says, hey, I just received the note. Go talk to Francis about it, all right? He's the one who wrote it. And we can say, look, if you had a hand in killing those people, I want to know about it. And he says, no, we are just protecting ourselves from the conspiracy. Marcus believes in law and evidence. And even though he knows these people are dangerous, he doesn't know who they are. And he's too honorable to plant evidence. My part is keeping Francis restrained from all out revenge. Sounds too tidy that Chosen One can say, I'm going to go check this out with Francis. So the mutants didn't wage war against the humans by killing a lot of them? It was just Francis. Zaeus apparently trying to restrain him, but failed. So now we need to confront Francis. But we also have to deliver some sad news. Heading to the house next to the barn, we can talk with the man who lost his wife. Well, he says, have you found her? My heart aches with every moment. Yeah, we can say, I found her. You found her? His eyes light up. Where? We can be awful and say, was she a hottie with no legs? And he says, what? No, she had great legs. Oh, right, we can say. Well, she hasn't got great legs now. She really got savaged. And her legs are off. She's totally dead. And she suffered before she died. Or we can be a decent human being and say, I found a group of dead people in the tunnels below the city. She was one of them. I'm sorry. And he says, thank you for telling me. I think I have to go cry. We can optionally then say, I found a letter on your wife. It indicates that she may have been part of a conspiracy to kill the mutants and broken hills. And he says, oh my god, I can't believe that. It's not. And then he sighs deeply. I suppose it may be true. She seemed to hate every mutant and ghoul she came into contact with. I never knew why. Be that as it may, the chosen one can say, you may want to consider that the murders might not stop with your wife. If she was implicated, you may be as well. And he says, you don't mean to say that my life is in danger too. Oh dear, you may be right. I've been hearing noises outside the house at night, whispers and shuffles. It might be a good idea to leave, we can say. Watch your back and good luck. We earn 500 experience for telling Dan about the fate of his wife, and after optionally telling him about the note, he will eventually leave town. Now we have to decide whether or not to confront Francis or join Jacob and D'Aleene in their jailbreak plot. But it's been about an hour. It was still on this side of town. Might as well check in with Typhon as if he's, uh, done. Kid, that magazine's turned up the old juices, he says. And I figure that for the sort of treasure I'm talking, you can hunt me down a few more things. Go get me a blow-up doll. You can probably find one in New Reno. Oh, for Pete's sake, this guy has no shame. All right then we can say bye, and he says, we'll hurry it up. I'm an old, old ghoul, and I tell you, I gotta have relaxation. Now go, go, go. Well, we could go all the way to New Reno to find this blow-up doll, but we just happen to come across one in Francis' bedroom. So heading back to the other side of town, we can sneak into Francis' room and steal his rubber doll. With the doll stolen and without being detected, we can head back to the eastern side of town and check in with Typhon. I've got it right here Typhon, and we can give him the blow-up doll. This kid will hit the spot, he says. Give me a few hours, and we'll talk more. Go on, and he then eyes the doll lustfully. If we try to talk to him before the time is up, he says, can't a guy get a little privacy? Get, get, go on. So making sure we come back two hours later, Typhon says, I'm all tuckered out now. Go get me some rot gut, and we'll talk about the treasure. Fill the bartender should be able to take care of that for you. Is that gonna be it, we can say? And he says, I'll probably want, oh, one more thing. I'll tell you what it is when you get me that damn rot gut, okay? With that, we need to head to fill the bartender to get some rot gut. Heading back to the western side of town, we can check in with Phil. You again, he says, what'll it be? I'd like some rot gut, please. He says it'll be about five bucks, and with the rot gut in hand, we can head back to the eastern side of town and give it to good old Typhon. Got it Typhon, here you go, and we can hand it over. That really hit the spot, kid. He says, I was gonna ask you for a plant, but hey, I'll give you a break. Maybe he saw that we already planted one in his front garden. G Typhon, you're so thoughtful, so where's the cash? And he says, all right, I remember stashing the cash somewhere downtown. It's been so many years, though, and the buildings have been built and rebuilt over and over that I'm not sure exactly where it is. If it helps, Annie, I remember thinking I should put it somewhere that wasn't likely to be torn down or plowed over. Somewhere indispensable, you know? Good luck to you. Oh great, now we're on a scavenger hunt. Now where in town would a ghoul hide some cash that wouldn't get torn down or plowed over? But then we remember it. In the middle of town on the western side, there was that big well. That wouldn't get torn down. It couldn't be plowed over and it's indispensable. Head in that way, we can activate the well, remembering what Typhon said about hiding the treasure somewhere indispensable, and that wasn't likely to be torn down or plowed over. You make a thorough check of the old well. A few feet down on the inside, we notice one brick jutting out substantially from the rest of the wall. Chutching says the chosen one, I'm going to be stinkin' rich. Gently pulling the loose brick from the wall, we gaze into the darkness looking for the booty we have earned. Hmm says the chosen one, can't quite see down there. We heaved the useless brick into the well, hoping to free up our hands. Ha! says the chosen one. All right, time to get the cash. Suddenly, from out of the hole in the well's wall, a sizable bag with a rope attached to it plunges into the darkness of the well. In our haste to retrieve the treasure, we failed to notice that the brick we discarded was attached by a rope to the very loot we were seeking. Crap says the chosen one, this sucks. Yes, it does suck, says the narrator. It looks like you'll need to figure out a way to get the treasure out of the well. You're much too big to make it down the well without getting stuck. Looks like you'll need some help. Some help, and then we remember, Mickey, the dwarf we met, when we first entered the town, we find him standing nearby. Once again says the dwarf you generously grace me with your presence. Any hidden treasure cash is lying about that I should be aware of? Well, we can say yes, actually. I think you'd be the perfect partner for a, shall we say, joint venture? Really, he says? That's great. What'll it be? Gold, jewels, sacred artifacts? Apparently we say a good bit of cash, enough to live comfortably on for a long while. Wow, says the dwarf. This is the break I've been waiting for. What do you say? Are we partners 50-50? Oh, you bet we can say. And he says excellent. So what's the story? Where are the bad guys? What do you want me to do? The chosen one says, let's just say you'll be spending some time in the local caverns. Sweet, just point me in the right direction says the dwarf. We arrive at the well. Uh, friend, this isn't quite what I had in mind. Keep going short round says the chosen one. Just being the kindest guy ever. All right, all right, I'm going says the dwarf. Ugh, it stinks down here. Okay, almost there. Yes, you got it, the chosen one says. Yep, it's right here says the dwarf. My god, this sack is huge. That old man wasn't kidding. There must be a load of cash in here. Tie this sack to the rope we can say. I'll pull it up. Yeah, right says the dwarf. So you can go running off with my share? I don't think so. Just give me a second to check it out. Whatever, you're not going anywhere says the chosen one. I'm open in the sack says the dwarf. It's, it's beautiful. It's so shiny. It's, it's, uh-oh. Uh-oh says the chosen one. You said, uh-oh. Why did you say, uh-oh? Uh, never mind. Check it out. Mickey ties the sack to the rope and we haul it up. It's pretty heavy. Maybe Mickey's wrong. Let's see what we've got here says the chosen one. We gingerly open the sack, relishing the adrenaline rush. The fabric of the sack parts to reveal. What is it says the chosen one? And he guesses. Any takers, drumroll? Can I get a drumroll? 10,000 bottle caps. Freakin' bottle caps says the chosen one. And we understand his frustration. Bottle caps were a valuable currency many years ago during the events of Fallout 1. But now the NCR dollar is used as the primary currency during the events of Fallout 2. As the NCR has expanded and become more prominent, bottle caps are now worthless. That's a pisser ain't it kid says Mickey? Well, better luck next time. Get me out of here. And the chosen one says that bastard old ghoul tricked me. He just wanted me to waste my time running around so he could laugh at me. Uh, friend says Mickey. A little help here. But the chosen one continues. He knew I'd spend hours. No days running all over creation to find that crap he wanted just so he could have a good giggle. Uh, look says Mickey. There's a large multi-legged thing down here that I'd like to get away from. Could you hurry up? But the chosen one pays no heed. Typhon should have known that caps were useless these days. Shouldn't he, we say? Oh my god, it's crawling on me. Help says Mickey. You know, says the chosen one. It's really kind of sweet when you think about it. He really thought he was helping me out. Maybe I shouldn't be too hard on the old guy. Oh, so much for the treasure. I guess I've got places to go. Says Mickey. And the chosen one just walks away. Help! We hear Mickey cry from the depths of the well. We can try to save him. We can activate the well. Says the chosen one. I keep having this feeling that I've forgotten something about the well. Oh well, no time to waste. No matter what we do, we can't save Mickey from this well. I'm gonna get you for this. Says Mickey. Still stuck at the bottom of the well. What's going on up there? It's crawling on me. Oh god. Oh my god. More locks. Ooh, moss. I'm hungry. I suppose the secret passage would be too much to ask for. Examining the bottle caps in our inventory. These are worthless bottle caps. You've heard that at one time they were used as money, though you suspect it's only a story. We can head back to the eastern side of town to try and confront Typhon. As we approach his house, we find him engaged in conversation with the plant. I wonder how my cousins in Arroyo are doing, says the plant. I hope they're flourishing. Of course they are, says Typhon, unless some rat bastard slaughters them all. And then we remember. Oh no, he looks exactly like the spore plants that were in Hakunin's garden. We're the rat bastard who killed them all. Well, we better not tell the plant. How's the treasure kids, says Typhon? It was all bottle caps we can say. It's worthless. What? They don't use caps as money anymore, says Typhon? You mean all that collecting and hiding and worrying someone's gonna steal my stash was for nothing? God damn it! Sorry to make you run around like that kid. If I'd have known, at this point we could kill him but that'll just turn the whole town hostile. So instead we can say, ah, I suppose it could have happened to anyone. Just then the plant says not to go out on a limb here. And it looks like Typhon is as fed up as we are. No more plant jokes, he says. But then Typhon tries to tell a joke. And the first proton says, yeah, I'm positive. That's so bad, says the plant. I'm wilting. Maybe if you gave photosynthesis a chance, says the plant. I'm not responsible for my evolutionary roots. Yeah, green bastard, says Typhon. And then he tries another joke. So then the woman says, that's not a rabbit, vicar. And the plant liked that one. Ha ha ha. Oh man, I just don't think I can take any more of this particular conversation. Moving on. Now we have to settle the conflict between the humans and mutants in broken hills. Instead of going to the pharmacist, Jacob, and instead of going to Francis, we can go straight to Marcus to tell him what we found. I found those missing people. They're in the tunnels beneath the city. They're dead? Damn. I'll tell the families myself. Oh, hey, I know you said you'd do this for free, but take this as our thanks. Or if we asked for the money. How used your reward? $500. Thanks for your time. With that, the screen goes black. And Marcus says, I guess Francis was right about Jacob. That murderous bastard won't cause any more trouble in this town. And if we chose not to ask for money as a reward, instead, we get a scoped hunting rifle as a reward. Nothing's better than seeing that surprise look on your target's face. The loophole 20 magnification scope on this hunting rifle makes it easier than ever before. Accurate from first shot to last, no matter what kind of game you're gunning for. It requires a minimum strength of five, has 10 shots of 2-2-3 full metal jacket ammunition, and weighs 13 pounds. If we choose this option, and we head back to the pharmacy, we see that Jacob and A. Leighen are gone. Heading back up to the prison, we find them behind bars with Manson and Frank. If we try to talk with them, they say, we was framed. We was framed. This ain't justice. You want to be ashamed of yourself. We were set up. We didn't kill those people in the tunnels. Now you can see how treacherous the mutants are if only you had seen earlier. So if we go straight to Marcus, the humans get punished for a crime they didn't commit. Or instead of telling Marcus, we can go down to the pharmacy and agree to Jacob's plot. If we previously declined to help him with his plot, he won't talk with us. So to get him to talk with us again, we have to convince Frank in the prison of our mutant hatred first, before heading back down to talk with Jacob. Then when he asks us if we hate mutants and we want to help the humans, we can say, sure. And he says, I have a little job for you. Our friends Manson and Frank are being held in jail. I want you to get them out. Do it quietly if possible. Don't want the whole town on your head. Well, what if I kill someone we can ask? And he says no problem. They're all mutants anyway. But do it quietly for God's sake. Now we have to break them out of jail. Jacob's wife, Alene says, up with human rights, Comrade, I'm glad you're one of us. Heading to the jail, we can wait until the mutants backs are turned and then pick the cell locks. Thank you for your help, friend. Let's go talk to Jacob and Alene. With that, we appear at Jacob's pharmacy. And we are in 1500 experience for successfully performing the jailbreak. Talking with Jacob, he says, well done on the jail work. I think I can trust you with something important. How'd you like to do a little more work? More work. Like what we can say. And he says it's like this. We hate the mutants. We want to kill them. The best way to get rid of them is to blow the mine up while they're inside. We want you to plant the charge. If we agree to it, he says, excellent, my friend. Here, take this explosive switch. Hook it up to the air purifier and get the hell out of there. We've arranged it so that the town's mutants will be in the mine. Just let me know when you're ready to go. We'll do, we can say. And as we leave, Jacob and Alene say, human solidarity, comrade. Heading back to the eastern side of town, we can pass Zyas' foreman shack and at last enter the uranium mine. Entering the mine, we find a bit of a labyrinth. As we learned, the mine is filled with radon gas. And so the chosen one in his companions periodically take damage. We have to constantly heal ourselves and give our companions plenty of stem packs so that they can heal themselves. To make it worse, the mine is infested with ants and we have to fight our way through. However, while fighting the ants, we notice the outline of a body nearby, hiding in the rocks. After clearing the ants, we can make our way there. It just looks like a pile of rocks. But if we step closer, we find a hole in the wall, leading to a secret chamber. And for discovering the secret chamber, we earn a thousand experience. As we approach, the body stands up. The game describes him as a dusty sleepy looking man with clothes that look very, very old-fashioned. He rubbed sleep from his eyes. What? Huh? Where am I? How long have I been asleep? If we say, I have no idea how long you've been asleep, but you've been broken hills near the new California Republic. He says, new what? California? The world has changed that much. A-e-e-e. And he flees in panic. We can try to calm him down. Hey, now, wait a second. But he high tails it out of there. Or we can say, who are you? And he says, I'm Chuck Stodgers. The greatest arrow-playing pilot in the world. Unfortunately, I crashed. I staggered into the scave to get away from the explosion and the fumes overwhelmed me. That sounds suspiciously like the premise of a pulp cartoon series we can say. Yes, it does, doesn't it, he responds. I have to go see what's happened in the world. Good luck, my friend. You two, Mr. Stodgers, we can say. And he high tails it out of there. You've uncovered yet another obscure pop culture reference and we gain 500 experience. And this is a reference to Buck Rogers, the star of comic strips, comic books, radio and even television programs, who first appeared in the novella Armageddon 2419. Buck Rogers, like Chuck Stodgers, was also trapped in a mine. After Chuck leaves, we see a foot locker on the ground. And inside, we find some uranium ore. A chuck of uranium ore, unrefined. It weighs 10 pounds. Looks like we might be able to take this back to the refinery. But for now, we have a job to do. After killing all of the ants in our way, we find the air purifier in the northeastern corner. Then, taking the explosive out of our inventory, we can place it on the purifier. The screen goes dark and we appear outside the mine. We earn 1,500 experience for destroying the air purifier. Heading all the way back to Jacob's chemist shop, he says, we are finally free of the impure mutant scourge. Thank you so much for your help. There's a small cache of weapons in the basement under Liz's general store. For your loyalty, please help yourself to what you find there. Okay, cool. Heading to Liz's general store, we can go to the back room. Sure enough, we see a ladder leading below ground, but when we try to climb down there, she says, hey, don't go down there. If we manage to sneak by her, or if we kill her, we can head down the ladder to find a small supply room. In a locker, we find a desert eagle and a 44-kelaber revolver with a 44 ammunition and a number of boxes. There's an FNFAL in one, a 10-Bill SMG in another, and a combat shotgun and a foot locker on the opposite side of the room. But this option kills every super mutant in town, including Marcus, which means we can no longer recruit him as a companion. So instead of siding with Jacob, we can confront Francis about what he did to the people in the tunnels below town, heading to the bar where we arm wrestled him. He says, can I help you with something? And the chosen one can say, I found a note in the tunnels with the names Francis and Zias on it. Looks like you've been committing some crimes. Damn it, he says. Zias left notes lying out again, eh? Well, human, let me tell you this. I knew there were people trying to kill mutants in this town, and I knew that Marcus would only arrest them with evidence. I just wanted to make it happen with as little blood shed as possible. So you killed innocent, huh? We can say. Innocence, he says, Ha! The people I killed were trying to kill me. I just returned the favor and made sure their deaths served another purpose, one that might further the cause of peace. We can say, the only thing that'll satisfy the cause of peace is for all the murderers to die. And I'm going to do my part by killing you. But if we choose that option, both he and everyone else in town, including Marcus, turns hostile. So instead we can say, But this way you're still nothing more than a criminal and a murderer. And I only have your word that there is a conspiracy. And Francis says, If you talk to some of the people in town about your hatred of mutants, you'd find out about the conspiracy. I know two wrongs don't make a right, but I call it self-defense. I did something wrong and I admit it. I can't stay here. I'll set out to find a way to a tone for my actions. Does that satisfy your sense of justice? It'll have to, we can say. With that, the screen goes dark. And Francis disappears from the town, going into self-imposed exile. For sending Francis into exile, we earn 1,000 experience points. And if we learned about Jacob's conspiracy to break Manson and Frank out of prison, we can then go back up to Marcus and tell him that Jacob and D'Aline asked me to break two people out of jail. I think they've got a plan on how to do it. Brian, me and my deputies will take it from here and thanks. I don't forget things like this. With that, Marcus again says that Francis was right about Jacob and we earned 2,500 experience. Then we can tell him about the bodies we found in the tunnels below to get the scoped hunting rifle. If we choose this path and we go up to the prison, we find Manson, Frank, Jacob and D'Aline behind bars. But this time they say, damn, Mute lover. Mute lover, get out of here. I don't want to breathe the same air as you. You utter traitor. You jerk, we trusted you to help us. Now, what to do with that piece of uranium or we found in the mine? Well, if we head to the refinery at the southern end of the western side, we can again talk with the glowing one. What do you want, he says? I have some ore to be refined we can say. And he says great, that'll be a thousand dollars. No haggling. You might think that's pricey, but it's a steal considering what you'll get for the finished product from an interested buyer. If we agree and say it's a deal, he says all right. Give us a day and we'll have it ready for you. If we come back a day later, he says your ore is done. Before you take it, listen. Our town really needs this ore. If you donate it to the town, I'll refund your money. Hell, if you want more money for it, I can even give you an extra five hundred dollars to make it worth your time. Please, with the fiasco at the mine, Broken Hills needs this to stay afloat. What do you say? If we take the thousand plus the extra five hundred, we get the money and 500 XP. But if instead we say sure, but don't worry about the extra five hundred, you probably need it more than I do. He says thanks. Here's your money back. Broken Hills won't forget this. And we walk away with 1,250 XP. This is the best use for the Uranium ore, because otherwise all we can use it as is a throwing or melee weapon. And it's not very strong. With the riddle solved, the people found, and the conspiracy dealt with, we can go back to Marcus and again ask him if he'd like to join our company. Now there's too much going on right now. When things calm down, then I just might. Oh, that's right. We still have to fix the air purifier in the mine. But to do that, we have to find the part from a guy in New Reno. Now we need to make a decision. Do we go straight to New Reno to get this part, to tie things up here on Broken Hills and get Marcus as a companion? Do we travel to NCR? To see if they know where Vault 13 is? Or do we continue south towards Vault 15 in the hope that we find any information about Vault 13? We'll make a decision and continue with our adventure in my next episode. As the story progresses, each of these locations becomes more elaborate than the last, which takes me much more time to get each episode done. But never fear, I'm hard at work on the next episode. And if you don't want to miss it, be sure to subscribe or to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxford. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wider ray of colors. You can find them on other items as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.