In our last episode, we defended Railroad Headquarters from a surprise brotherhood attack. The Institute caught wind of an impending attack, which we learned from an ally's synth at the Institute, and so we raised to the Railroad Headquarters to save them in the nick of time. But not before glory, died in battle. After clearing the church, Desdemona told us that we couldn't waste any time. The brotherhood is an immediate threat, and before they can attack again, the Railroad is planning to attack the Pridwin directly. Now, apparently this was a plan that Tinkertom and Desdemona had talked about in the past. Its operation read glare. The details are fuzzy, but it involves getting a vertebrae. Desdemona told us that there's almost always one parked on the rooftop of the Cambridge Police Station. And since Tinkertom is the only one who knows how to fly a vertebrae in the Railroad, he'll be joining us on this mission. We immediately left for Cambridge, but we wanted to do this mission in the dark of night. And so, waiting with Deacon and a nearby abandoned house, we can wait until nightfall, and then move towards college square. There we find Tinkertom, waiting for us by a bus stop. There is a million ways we could be monitored right now. By the brotherhood, you know. Monitor, what do you mean? The institute's had hundreds of years to put advanced sensors, cameras, and other technology everywhere, man. That rock will be wiped up. Hello, you bastards. Anyway, another one of your paranoid fantasies. Come on, man. Maintain positive energy. Relaxed time. You'll be alright. Right. The whole breathing in and out, okay. About the mission time. The police station's crawling with brotherhood guys. At least one in power on them. But as promised, they got a vertebrae on the roof. You really up for this? I'm not quite ready yet. All right, all right. Let me know when you are. Any other intel on the police station. Expect Territz and reinforcements inside. That's all I got. This mission was going together fast. Let's go. It's a payback time. Prepping that vertebrae for takeoff was going to take me a few minutes. So first, we got to clear the police station of hostiles for glory. For glory. Sounds a lot better than ad Victorian. Heading that way, we indeed see the vertebrae on the rooftop of the Cambridge police station. And a number of brotherhood initiates and soldiers milling around outside. Tell your friends you dead bastard. Almost immediately, Knight re-sattacks us. We won't get lost. But the railway rifle is devastating against enemies not in power armor. He goes down fast. Both Deacon and Tinker Tom race forward to help us with this assault. And we find multiple Knights in power armor, including some on the rooftop by the vertebrae. Oh, my God. Waiting, that is. At this point, I think we've cleared it. The problem is that our pit boy picks up one enemy signal on the compass. However, creeping forward, we don't see anyone else. This is a little annoying. We'll tackle this in a minute. But for now, it's time to loot the dead. Knight re-s doesn't have anything of interest on his inventory. Moving towards the garage, we see that it's closed. We can't open it from the outside. So once we loot the bodies around the defenses, we can climb the stairs and enter the Cambridge police station. Agile tricks. And dance isn't here. In his place is someone called a head knight. Thank you. God, I'm so sorry. I insert some dark takes here. The ceiling we've got a machine gun turret, and it's annoyingly hiding behind this light fixture. We can't target it from distance. We've got a break cover in order to destroy it. No, Murr! No, Murr! Murr! No, Murr! Murr! Wow! Oh! Moving into the barracks, we can loot some radaway and purified water, and then conceal ourselves in this hallway to clear the initiates to the south. Murr! Wow! Let's see what I got in my bag of tricks. Lost it! Oh, maids! We did make it, right? Moving into this room, we can take care of another machine gun turret, and more scribes. We've got bloodshinings. We've got bloodshinings. We've got bloodshinings. We've got bloodshinings. We've got bloodshinings. We've got bloodshinings. We've got bloodshinings. That got the bloodshinings. And then we can loot the dead. Behind the counter, we find the body of scribe Halen. I don't remember killing her. But everything was, tad crazy. Police station's safe key. The body of the head and knight doesn't have anything of interest. Inside the Cambridge Police Station's safe, we find a copy of Guns and Bullets. The widely mole rat, Varmut, or tender delicacy. Bear proofing your campsite don't get caught by surprise. Ballistic weapons permanently do 5% critical damage. We need to get to the roof. So heading down the hallway to the north, we can take the staircase to the top. Where we find a scribe. Not sure how he missed the fight. Rounding a corner, we can take care of a turret. And then at the top, open the door to the roof. Now we cleared this roof from outside. So all we find up here are corpses. However, neither Tinker Tom nor Deacon triggered dialogue. And getting in the vertebrae does nothing because we haven't finished clearing the police station. This goes back to what I was saying earlier about that an enemy. That's what I was saying earlier about that annoying red tick on our compass. There's one brotherhood soldier still left alive. She's outside. But to get to her, we have to go back inside. Take the staircase down past the cells. And open the door to the Cambridge Police Station Motor Pool. Throttle! Whoa! No! And Tinker Tom kills her before we can even load in. This is annoying because it involves two loading screens to kill this person. But with that, we've cleared the Cambridge Police Station. So we can head back to the roof. Whereupon we find that Tinker Tom is ready to talk. Quick, I sell some wheels! Oh, a wings, or whatever it is, here's the after-flight prep. We take the vertebrae up to the Phridwin and got it. From the inside, the blips bolum. To keep that baby afloat, it's got massive gas bags full of hydrojee. Really? It's full of hydrogen? Helium's rare as him. Only gas light enough and plentiful enough is good ol' number one on the periodic tape. Hydrogen. If this is a suicide run, count me out. No, man, these explosives are remote control. I won't set them off until we get to a safe distance. Look, the dangerous part is placing them on the gas bags in the first place. And getting out? That's all you. And they'll just let us land? Huh. Huh. There's no way they'd expect anybody to hijack one of their birds. And Deacon says he can talk his way past air traffic control. Cool. But I ain't gonna lie. Your part is tricky. You gotta find a way to place these explosives on the gas bags. Then get back out. Tell me about my role in this. Your job is tricky. You gotta find a way to place these explosives on the gas bags. Then get the hell back to our vertebrae. Make it to a comfortable distance, then it's by-by prick. Light prep is going to take time. And the brotherhood's not just going to give it to us. So if Paladin show up, keep them off me and the bird. With that, Taker Tom preps the vertebrae for flight. So the manual said...right. Where's the master switch? Man, you've got a vertebrae in there. All pressure. Check. But while he's doing that, another vertebrae arrives. Oh, shit, I'm gonna spend so much energy. So we can see how a railway rifle fares against a vertebrae. And it does surprisingly well. We take out the vertebrae before their nights can drop to the rooftop. And it crashes on the ground nearby. The explosion pretty much takes care of everyone on board. There are no survivors. With that, Tom has the vertebrae ready for flight. But we need to talk with Deacon before boarding. First things first. I picked up some brotherhood duties for you. Merry Christmas. More importantly though, Tinker's ready for us on the bird. Let's go. Deacon gives us 500 bottle caps. We complete the quest precipice of war. He gives us a randomly generated weapon. In my case, a plasma rifle. We then begin. Rockets red glare. And he gives us some plasma grenades and ammunition. We can then board the vertebrae. So, uh, we'll... Uh, so this... Yo, uh... Just said you could fly this thing. Sure, sure. We'll read the manual. Cover the cover. The manual. Take our Tom manages to get the thing airborne. We're spinning! Spinning! Oh, man! Oh, it's a devil! See? Just like falling off a low. Dear God, we're dead. And much like the flight we took with dance. Back when the Pridwen first arrived, we make our way to their flying fortress. Right. Final briefing time. Uh, and the brother who has just got a ball for that? And that's a bit of a glitch. The dialogue there didn't make any sense because a ton of dialogue got cut. Making the rest of the flight rather quiet. I looked this one up and apparently, this bug triggers if we have deacon as a companion before starting Operation Red glare. And it's a really bad bug because his dialogue here is crucial to understanding the mission that's to follow. He essentially explains to us how we can infiltrate the Pridwen without going in guns blazing. I miss this conversation even in my very first playthrough because I always had deacon as a companion. So when I first completed the game years ago, I didn't even know there was a stealthy option. So reloading a save, we can start this flight again. But without, deacon as an active companion. And this time, deacon's dialogue works. Right, final briefing time. Glory would have wanted us to go in guns blazing. But I'm thinking, finesse. I got you this. If you're wearing the latest in the Brotherhood's fall fashion line, it might help you to place those bombs and get back in one piece. And the Brotherhood's just gonna fall for that? The Brotherhood is nothing if not arrogant. They'd never dream of a million years that an ex-farmer and a scabver could fly one of their burns. So if we look, walk, and if worst comes to worst, talk like an asshole with a superiority complex, we'll be fine. And even if we don't, hey, if it only buys you a little time, that's better than nothing. When we land, tanker's gonna keep the vertivered spool for an immediate takeoff. And my job is to be Tom's lookout and make sure any look you lose keep walking. During that conversation, deacon gave us a Brotherhood of Steel uniform, one of their orange jumpsuits. So if we want to infiltrate with stealth, we need to put this thing on as soon as we dock with the Pridwinn. Tom, we're getting closer to the blimp. Can you fly just a little straighter? Deacon, man, I'm trying. If you want to give it a whirl, I won't stop. No, no, no, no, you're doing great, Tom. Just keep her a little more steady. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I got you. Scabber, this is Claymore requesting clearance. Claymore, you're cleared for launch, Bay 3. That officer is requesting an update on the police station. Hostiles eliminated. Zimitar status, confirmed. Zimitar took some fire. Should be up and running a few hours. We have a visual on you Claymore. You're docking ports not open. Got some technical difficulties with the port thingy working on it, Tom. Yeah, yeah, but what button is it? Claymore, you're clear for approach. Zimitar was the name of the ferdabird that we shot down. Deacon told them that it was undergoing repairs back at the police station to buy us some time. Tom swiftly approaches the grid when, and once in range, begins the docking procedure. Remember, keep that brotherhood uniform on. Otherwise, it's going to be the shortest-naked filtration in history. Don't take too long in there. If anyone comes over here, I don't know if I can fool you. Good luck! Now, of course, we could go in Guns Blazing, and that does slightly change the outcome. But first we'll explore how this works, if we don't the brotherhood of steel uniform, and try to blend in. As Deacon told us, he's going to be staying with Claymore to sweet talk anybody who comes by expressing a little bit too much curiosity. However, he doesn't stay in Claymore if he was an active companion before we boarded the ferdabird to fly to the Prydwin, which I think is a bit of a glitch, from a story perspective he is supposed to stay here. I played through this part of the game multiple times to get all of the dialogue and outcomes possible, so sometimes you'll see him with me aboard the Prydwin, and sometimes he won't be there at all. With the uniform on, it appears to be working. The soldiers outside are not suspicious. You lost? Maxine's address is being held on the command deck. Oh, man, if I'm late for Muster one more time, Captain Kels is going to have me doing a hundred push-ups. Heading inside, we can go to the room where Elder Maxine gave his presentation earlier. He's not here, interesting they didn't update the soldier dialogue outside. Then we can go downstairs to the flight deck to see if Captain Kels is here. But he's not, that we do find some Lancer Knights. If we try to talk to them... Hey. You came in on Claymore, right? The radio chatter from the police station had the tower worried. What happened anyway? Talking with anyone aboard the Prydwin is a bad idea. We're supposed to get in and get out as fast as possible. If we do talk with them, we find a number of opportunities to blow our cover, but also a number of ways to salvage it. We could attack. Time to die. What? Weapons ready. Jack, before I met you, I'd grow old days without massacring a bunch of things. Honest. But probably not the best idea. Instead, we can try to talk our way out of this. And this conversation is one of the most complicated dialogue trees I've ever seen in Fallout 4. Each of these choices leads to a completely different dialogue tree. A tree with options that we can either pass or fail. If we fail, she becomes suspicious. And we then have to pass or fail a suspicion dialogue tree. If we pass the previous tree, she has a follow-up question for us that we again can either pass the dialogue. We can either pass or fail. It's Inception Level Dialog here. We could start by saying that it was a drill. Nothing. The whole thing was a training drill. Can you believe it? That's not like any drill I've ever been in. If we choose the option no time for this or fail any of these charisma checks, she becomes suspicious. And the suspicion dialogue tree is the same for all of the three previous options. So right now, we'll cover the successes. If we succeed at any of these... One of the headnights thought we were getting too complacent. They just love keeping us on our toes, don't they? The test was very realistic. They monitored everything, looking for mistakes. Great. Like our jobs aren't hard enough. The details of the drill are still under wraps. There'll be a full briefing tomorrow. Thanks. Looking forward to hearing about it then. She then asks us a follow-up question. A question that's shared with the successes of the other two stories that we can concoct. Another story we can come up with is to say that the railroad hit us. The railroad launched some half-assed counterattack. What? The railroad? They attacked the police station? Again, if we choose the option no time for this or fail any of these charisma checks, she becomes suspicious of us. And we reach the suspicion dialogue tree. But if we pass them... That's what the others said. I was on patrol when it happened. Well, I'm glad it turned out okay. Just a couple snipers. The air support helped us find their position. Those idiots don't know when they've been beat. They mounted some sort of last ditch assault. I think the railroad's gone. That's a relief. We again trigger her follow-up question. Or we could say that it was a raider ambush. Some idiot raiders got a hold of a rocket launcher and were taking it for a joyride. And you called in Cimitar to help with raiders? Like with the other two, if we choose no time for this or fail any of these charisma checks, we go into the suspicion dialogue tree. But if we pass them... No idea. I was surprised as anyone else when Cimitar flew in. Someone's gonna answer for it. Calling in a strike on raiders? Shee. One of our new recruits, Pennet. New guys, right? I wouldn't want to be him. We've all been there though. There were a lot of them. The smart call was to bring in the cavalry. Still. That's gotta hurt your pride, right? Your bird flu support on the railroad assault, right? How'd they beat us? Elder Maxon's furious. We then get dumped into the follow-up dialogue tree where she asks us about the failed railroad op. This is the same dialogue tree we get to if we succeed with the other two stories. At this point, we could become impatient. Can we do this later? Dead tired. Not many people made it out of there. A lot of us are dying to know what happened. This doesn't lead to violence instead it unlocks a new red charisma check. But it doesn't lock us from any of the others. If we fail any of these charisma checks, we bust our disguise. The only way to get through this is to pass any of these four checks. They had some institute super weapons auto locking with bullets that curved. The whole thing is hush-hush. Got it. I won't tell anyone. We'll get them next time. AdVictorium brother. That wasn't their HQ. It was a trap. They blew the tunnels and killed a lot of good men. Sneaky. We'll get them next time. AdVictorium brother. I didn't see anything. We dropped off our men and circled the area and then we were told to come home. So, you're as in the dark as the rest of us. We'll get him next time. AdVictorium brother. Buddy, I just pulled a double shift. I don't have time for this. Alright, I hear you. Rest easy. With that, she walks off and we maintain our disguise. But if we failed some of those earlier charisma checks, she becomes suspicious and we get this dialogue. I don't have time for this. Hmm. I know a lot of people on the Pridwin, but I can't say I remember you. At this point, we could choose violence. I'm... Shit. This isn't working. Time to die. What? Lock and load! Run the ransom. Get that. Ah! I'm not like this. No! Which is less than ideal. And a fight breaks out if we fail any of these three remaining charisma checks. No surprise there. I'm one of the new recruits from the Commonwealth. Yeah, right. You're not one of us. Intruder! Ha! But if we pass them. No surprise there. I'm one of the new recruits from the Commonwealth. Well, this is a heck of a welcome to the Brotherhood. If I don't get a full report in Pronto, we're both going to be in trouble. Is that what you want? Fine, fine. Your memory must be terrible then. I've been with the Brotherhood since we left the capital wasteland. Sorry. Big ship, I guess. Sorry to hold you up. Report to Captain Kells for a full debrief. Advictorium. And we maintain our disguise. Easy to get lost in the woods here. We can now continue with our infiltration. We need to head to the ladder and climb it to the Pridwin main deck. On the main deck we see Brotherhood walking around. We can try to talk to them. We lost two squads too. The railroad. Looks like not every person we can talk to triggers a conversation. So many soldiers killed and wounded. Things are not going well. Excuse me. Graham Days for the Brotherhood. No one came back from the railroad mission. What? You looking at me? We severely underestimated the Commonwealth. You here to chew me out too? We should just cleanse the entire Commonwealth. So many damn setbacks. Keep your head down. Otherwise you're the next scapegoat. This science won't know what hit it. I wish they'd moved my lab to an area with natural light. My plants are starving. Interestingly we don't find Max in anywhere. And we don't find Paladin Dance. Which is weird because he wasn't at the Cambridge Police Station either. So we can climb the staircase up to the top level. But along the way, we bump into Proctor Quinlan. I can't help but notice your empty handed. Please. Tell me that Halen remembered to load my package on Claymore. Those technical documents may be exactly what we need to repent. Nippity Prime. So you understand the urgency. Talking to Quinlan triggers a new conversation that can get us in trouble. If we fail any of these charisma checks. Sir, I wasn't on Claymore. I know I saw you get off the verte bird. Why are you intruder? Intruder! For L-package! However, if we pass them. Sir, I wasn't on Claymore. I saw you disembark myself. Don't try to shut your responsibilities here. Where is my package? No, sir. I really wasn't on Claymore. Oh dear. The ravages of age and all. Carry on. I'll bring you the package later, sir. As soon as you've can, all you'll have to answer to Elder Maxson. Unloading cargo is not my job. Maybe I'll send one of the squires then. Hey, Lan didn't give us anything. Not our fault. That's so unlike her. I'll just have to ask Kels to send another verte bird then. And we make it. Now we could try to steer clear of anyone else. But on the other side of this platform, we see Captain Kels. Now's not a good time to keep me waiting. And Claymore's ours overdue. Wait. Why isn't Knight Owens handling this debrief? And sure enough, talking with him gets us into trouble. Failing any of these squires much x leads to, you guessed it. Knight Owens was delayed. I took the initiative, sir. Wait. You're not one of my men. Intruder. I have to talk. However, passing them. Knight Owens was delayed. I took the initiative, sir. We need more of that initiative. Sorry, sir. Won't happen again, sir. See that it doesn't. Owens, where is he? I don't know, sir. I can't afford this sort of incompetence, especially now. We had some big problems at the police station. Owens, he didn't make it. One disaster after the next. The pilot ordered me to report to you. I didn't ask why. Fine. If you had arrived when you were scheduled to, we could have handled the debrief right away. As is, I'll send someone for you when I can spare the time. Dismissed. And Captain Kills walks off. At last, we can make our way up to the top catwalk that travels between the hydrogen-filled bladders. We need to plant the explosives. On the red, fire-controlled gas valves attached to each bladder. One down. However, we see a scribe wandering these catwalks. It's hard to avoid him, and he walks right towards us. Stop. This is a restricted section. You shouldn't be up here. If we choose the violence option or fail any of the charisma checks. Wrong place, wrong time pal. What? However, if we pass them. Damn it. I'm new here. There weren't any signs. Idiot. Were you paying a lick of attention during training? No ones allowed near the gaspags except authorized personnel. If I see you here again, I'll have to call security. I am a superior officer. I don't have to answer to the likes of you. As you say, sir. But when my shift ends, I'm taking it up with my CO. Just making a routine inspection. You know the drill. An inspection? Let me tell me about an inspection. Haven't you ever heard of a surprise inspection? Jesus. I grew his captive gaspags in Macielin. You don't believe me? Go ahead and look. Asshole. Someone's up for a promotion. Just need to see if everything's shaped. Seriously? Well, it's about time. You won't find a single thing out of order. Please. Look for yourself. With that, the scribe walks off. We manage to talk our way out of it. But even at this point, we can mess up. If we plant the explosive on the gasbag valve while he's too close to us. You can there. One to go. He and everyone aboard the grid when turns hostile. So we have to do this from stealth. Make sure we're hidden. And then plant the explosive. Okay. One to go. But this guy is a slow walker. We gotta keep our distance and keep hidden until we get close to the final valve. Now to get out of here. With that, we've placed all three explosives. And we can get out of here as quickly as possible. Down the ladder, we again don't find anyone waiting for us. In the briefing room, we can head out to the flight deck. And make our way to Claymore. Now, of course, I made a lot of mistakes there to show off all of the dialogue. But it's actually pretty easy to infiltrate the grid when, without bumping into anyone. With the brotherhood of steel outfit equipped, we can drop down to the very bottom of the ship. There are a few people wandering around down here. But if we keep our distance and stay off the beaten path, we can head to the front of the ship and then take the stairs all the way to the top. This way we've avoided everyone. Now all we've got to do is avoid or eliminate the soul's scribe wandering around this catwalk. And with a silenced deliverer, that makes things easy. And we're shooting at what? Exactly. We don't alert anyone. We can plant all three explosives. Now to get out of here. And then parkour our way out of here to achieve the same result in record time. But as always, there's the violent option. If we don't wear the brotherhood of steel outfit, as soon as we disembark from Claymore, everyone who sees us turns hostile. And we have to eliminate them one by one. How wild west of you? No! Huh? Parkour! I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm really stuck! Oh my god. You business model. You live to fight another day. And night. And day. And sudden episode. Then heading inside, we can take care of the Lancer Knights. Loo dab absolutely everything, and then take the ladder upstairs. However, on the main deck, it's much harder to maintain stealth without wearing the brotherhood of steel outfit. So we pretty much just have to go in guns blazing. Die! Get the gun! Go! Go! Perfectly! Oh my god! Take your friend. That wasn't in the script. Yeah! Oh my god! We can now try to leave the Pridwen. However, after killing everyone on board, once we head down the ladder, we find Elder Maxson waiting for us. We are pinned. He opens a barrage of Gatling Laser Fire. He's got a knight in power armor shooting at us, and another knight with a missile launcher. If not for vets, I don't know how we would get through this. But thankfully, with the combination of vets and a railway rifle, we have enough time and power to survive. Then, equipping a Gatling Laser that we found earlier, we can load ourselves up with Kim's and deal with this final knight. Oh my god! I can't see if they left any useful for us. Well, I don't even know if blowing up the Pridwen is necessary now. Everyone on board is dead. And doing it this way, lends us some valuable loot. On the body of Elder Maxson, as we discovered when we sided with the Institute, we find Maxson's Battlecoat. And Maxson's Battlecoat is an important piece of armor for our railroad playthrough, because it does accept ballistic weave. And since it comes with armor on it already, this makes it one of the best pieces of armor outside of power armor that we can get. Additionally, we can loot Final Judgment, which is Elder Maxson's personal Gatling Laser, again an item I covered when we sided with the Institute. No matter how we chose to plant the bombs, one sound side we need to get to Claymore. If we managed to sneak in and plant the bombs without getting detected. We seriously didn't raise an alarm. No, I'm just to be safe. Step on it. Man, I'm trying! I'm trying! The airport, when a tanker's favorite salvage in spots. Don't get too close to him. I can't believe we're actually going away with this. Yeah, Gert! I got it! Deacon mentions that he can't believe we're getting away with it, and we fly away unscathed. However, if we chose to do this the glory way... Move, move, move! We're in! Oh! What's taking so long? Have a hold on a second! Possible to ground. Catching the gear top! Upon undocking from the Pridwin, everyone at the airport opens fire at us. We've got a gatling gun here we can try to kill them, but this makes our escape a bit more complicated. I did it! Why did I have to do this? Huh! Alright! It's got to get to the station! What is this? You are a good guy! Nice! Either way, once we get far enough away... We're out of the blast range now. Here goes nothing! Shit! Whoa! That's a hell of a... Resties for you. I need a drink. The Pridwin goes down. And with that, we remove the brotherhood of steel as a factor in the Commonwealth. Everyone's gone! I've got to find some places to dash this piece. See you back in the middle of the city. He's going to meet us back at HQ. But I'm completely out of time. We'll check in with Desdemona and see what the next step is in my next episode. I publish new Fallout episodes each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss the next one, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already but you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter and Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new plushie for sale. This plushie's inventory is limited. Once I sell out, they're gone forever. So if you don't want to miss out on this one-of-a-kind limited edition Oxhorn plushie, Snag yours today. I've also got a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do when you want to support me in another way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comment sections of my videos, and they gain access to oxomojis that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with the next episode in the full story of the Railroad. .