I got to see the first two episodes of Prime Video's new Fallout show. It happened during my trip to Austin to visit the recreation of Philly. Before we went to Austin, we stomped off in California. There we had a private screening of the first two episodes in a theater right next to the legendary Culver Studios. It was a lot of fun, and then we got to go to Texas to enjoy Philly. But information about the first two episodes was embargoed until recently. I can now talk about the first two episodes, but I want to make sure that I avoid spoilers. And at the same time, I want to adequately touch on lore, themes, and tone. So while I will actively avoid major storyline spoilers, I will be talking about stuff that sets the stage for the Fallout universe as explored in the TV show. If you want to go into the TV show knowing absolutely nothing about the plot, you might want to skip this video. There are two parts to lore and world building that we need to be concerned with. The first is the structural foundation of the world. These are the things that make this fictional universe different from all the others. It makes it unique. If any of the pillars holding up this foundation were to break, it would destroy the integrity of the entire fictional universe. The second are mostly superficial facets of the universe. These are little bits and pieces of the world that give it character, give it flourish, but they aren't instrumental to the underlying structure of the universe. As a storyteller, you can get some of the facets wrong, and still tell a great story that doesn't violate the integrity of the world. But you can't get any of the structure wrong. I'm happy to say that within the first two episodes, at least, the showrunners exhibit an extraordinary attention to detail concerning both the underlying structure of the universe and the facets of the universe that give it charm and character. I have a few lore questions that weren't answered in the first two episodes that give me cause for concern, but those concerns could be easily resolved in subsequent episodes. There wasn't anything that blatantly shattered the foundation of the Fallout universe. The first two episodes of the show split the storytelling between the three major characters, Lucy and her life in the vault, the ghoul, and his origin, and Maximus, and his role within the Brotherhood of Steel. We start with Lucy in the Vault, and the majority of the first episode explores her story. Veterans of the Fallout games know that when it comes to Vault-Tec vaults, your vault either had some sort of awful experiment associated with it, or it was a control vault. A vault with no experiment, something to compare the vaults that had experiments against. Invariably, the people who lived in the vaults in the Fallout universe suffered some awful end, possibly due to unforeseen circumstances, but oftentimes due to the nature of the experiments themselves. The people in the vaults didn't realize that they were going to be subjected to these experiments, but it's post-apocalypse, the doors have closed, there's no one left to stop Vault-Tec, and so the experiments go on. We see that over 200 years after the apocalypse, life in Vault-T3 is thriving, but Vault-T3 is different from every other vault in the known Fallout universe, in that it's actually connected underground to another vault. Vault 32. And the reason for this is made clear in the first episode. People on Vault-T3 only marry people in Vault 32, and vice versa. Whenever a young person grows up and gets married, the vaults swap people. A husband or a wife will then move to the other vault to live with his or her spouse. It's an elegant way of diversifying a vault's gene pool and avoiding disease and defects. And of course, this is something few of the vaults in the Fallout universe have explored, but of course, maintaining the genetic diversity of a vault's population is going to be one of the most important hurdles that a vault has to overcome. The solution found in the show is an elegant one, have more than one vault. They are connected underground, and they exchange populations over time. I don't know if Vault 33 and by extension Vault 32 are control vaults, or if the nature of the connected vaults were part of Vault-Tex experiment. Perhaps Vault-Tex experiment was to severely limit the initial population of each vault, forcing them to communicate with each other, and remain social with each other over time in order to maintain a large enough population. The show doesn't make this explicitly clear, but this is just something I've been thinking about after watching it. Now, of course, something happens, and I don't want to reveal spoilers, so I'm not going to talk about this something. But this something is the catalyst that drives the Vault. Frustratively, it's going to be familiar. It's going to be very familiar to people who have played Fallout 4, and in particular to people who have played Fallout 3. Fallout Navegas was an outlier, it was very unique. In Navegas, you're not a Vault-Dweller. You are the Courier, a Wastelander. In Fallout 1, you are the Vault-Dweller. In Fallout 2, you're a tribal not a vault-dweller, but you are the chosen one, a descendant of the original Vault-Dweller. In Fallout 3, you are a Vault-Dweller, and Fallout 4, you are a Vault-Dweller. And so going along with established Fallout tradition, Lucy is a Vault-Dweller, and she leaves the Vault for a very similar reason to why previous Vault-Dwellers in the Fallout franchise have left their vaults, particularly in the Bethesda Fallout. And I know there are going to be people who complain about that. There will be people who criticize what they perceive to be a lack of ingenuity concerning Lucy's impetus to leave the Vault. I share those criticisms to some extent. And yet at the same time, I'm also aware of the fact that there are few reasons to force somebody to leave a home they've always known to enter an irradiated wasteland full of danger they've always been afraid of, except for the direst of circumstances. That is to say, someone's only going to leave a home filled with safety and family if either safety or family has been compromised, which is why many of the Bethesda Fallout games in particular adhere to that familiar formula. On one hand, I am a little disappointed that Lucy's story had so many familiar elements. On the other hand, I was delighted that it was also so different. We see a lifestyle inside Vault 33 that is very different than anything that we've really seen in any of the other Fallout Vaults, even in any of the control vaults or the vaults that have survived 200 years that had still living citizens within them. They briefly explored the politics within the vault, the power structure, with the overseer and the vault council, the culture of Vault dwellers, some being extremely naive and cowardly others despite their naivety being brave and adventurous. The can-do attitude instilled in every Vault Weller by a Vault-Tack was embraced by Lucy. It's one of her foundational morals, which helped give her the strength she needed to do what she must and leaving the vault wasn't the only thing she had to do that she didn't really want to do, but that she did because she knew it was her duty. Lucy is a true believer in the role of the Vaults. She really believes that the Vaults are there to restart humanity, which makes her emergence into the wasteland fascinating and also a bit heartbreaking. The first two episodes of the show don't really tell us much more about the ghoul than we already deduced from the trailer. Really, there are two major things that we learn about the ghoul that aren't shown in the trailer. The first is that he's a mercenary or at least it appears that he is. We find him in Philly because he's looking for someone. He's trying to collect on a contract. The second thing we learn brings up some issues about ghouls and their nature and that this is something that they dabbled in in Fallout 4 that kind of bothered me at the time and to the state remains a bit unresolved. Remember the story of Billy the Kid in the fridge? When I stumbled upon Billy in Fallout 4, I laughed. It was a fun quest and he was an interesting character and it's a popular segment from the game. My video on Billy the Kid in a fridge is my most watched video ever and yet this quest brings up lots of issues about ghouls because we're supposed to believe that Billy a child got locked in a fridge right after the nuclear apocalypse of 2077 where he stayed for 200 years. Okay, possible if you're a ghoul and he is a ghoul. The fridge wasn't airtight or even watertight nuclear Fallout leaked into it he became gulified which made him immortal. But we've got more than his mortality to deal with in this story. We have to worry about his mind as well but the game shows us that we don't need to worry about that apparently because he climbs out of the fridge unscathed. He hasn't had food in 200 years. He is laptop droplets of water that oozed between the cracks in the door but essentially this accidentally imposed solitary confinement for 200 years hadn't affected his mind. He was the same little boy that climbed into it in 2077 but that's hard to believe. And after learning where the ghoul in the Fallout TV show has been these past 200 years I'm left with the same concerns. We get the impression from the show that the ghoul character for the past 200 years has gone through moments of activity and moments of a hibernation kind of it's like a quasi-hybernation and it's not always a hibernation of his choice. He's depicted as a dangerous force that at times needs to be contained by his enemies because he can't be killed which itself is a bit different. Ghouls in the Fallout universe can be killed they can be mortally wounded they just can't die from natural causes or from radiation or from starvation or from diseases or from FEV or from mutation but they can be killed with a machete they can be killed with a gun and yet the ghoul in the Fallout show can't. During that fire fight in Philly we see him shot multiple times and he just brushes it off much in the same way he brushes off getting shot with the tranquilizer dark that Lucy fires at him. That's not really how ghouls work ghouls aren't immortal to everything they're immortal to invisible forces to natural causes. That said the entire process of ghoulification hasn't been overtly defined and explained to us by the Fallout franchise. What we know about being a ghoul is pieced together from personal experiences of ghouls we've met in the game. The ghoul couple running the hotel in the underworld during Fallout 3. John Hancock who ghoulified himself by taking an experimental cocktail of drugs. The biological nature of a ghoul is kind of a loosely defined thing. As exemplified by Harold I think. Harold self identified as a ghoul in Fallout 2 but we learned in Fallout 1 that he wasn't a ghoul he was actually exposed to FEV in the same way that Richard Gray who became the master was exposed to FEV. It's just that FEV worked on him in a different way than it worked on Richard Gray. In a different way than it works on super mutants. It mutated him into something that more closely resembled a ghoul but we learn over time transformed him into something completely different and yet for much of his post exposure life he identified as a ghoul. Hancock never exposed to Fallout from the Great War but equally identifies as a ghoul. The nature of a ghoul isn't concretely defined in the Fallout universe and so I think that lives a lot of room for a storyteller to work. I worry about the mind of the ghoul character in the same way that I worry about the mind of Billy the Kid and the Fridge. It's hard for me to suspend my disbelief that spending so much time alone didn't alter their minds in some way. But then again this is the Fallout universe and there's a lot about it that forces us to suspend our disbelief. What was most interesting to me about the Brotherhood when we finally get to them in the show is that it looks like the showrunners have gone back to portraying the Brotherhood as a quasi-modevil society. We remember from Fallout 1 that all of the scribes and elders wore robes. They talked about tomes and codices. Some of that was brought to Fallout 3. The scribes and elders continued to wear robes in Fallout 3 but by the time of Arthur Maxson in Fallout 4 a lot of that had been abandoned. Their attire became more modern and a bit more practical and I think the reason for this was because they were deployed in the field. These weren't just scribes. These were field scribes. Scribe Halen for example isn't in a robe. She's deployed on a mission and so she's dressed appropriately for that mission. In the TV show the scribes are depicted wearing robes. They have underground interiors lit with candles. I get feels like a medieval crypt. When I did my first video on the show highlighting my concerns one of the big ones was that the Brotherhood of Steel never existed to instill order. It existed to hoard technology. I was worried that the showrunners had ignored that and I was relieved when the Brotherhood showed up to hear them talk about technology. They did talk about instilling order and that's again not really what the Brotherhood is all about so I'm not exactly sure why they're suddenly all concerned about order but they did go on and on about technology too so they didn't forget about that. The Brotherhood of Steel is a technology cult first and foremost. They use force and they instill order only to achieve their goals which is too hard technology. They're not exactly the good guys and thankfully they're not exactly portrayed as the good guys in the show. Maximus is my favorite character in the show so far. Not only did Aaron Moten do an extremely good job of portraying Maximus's internal conflict but we walk away from the second episode not knowing if Maximus is a good guy or a bad guy. He's just so well done and that's exactly what the Brotherhood should be. The Brotherhood as an organization is sort of like a gray area organization there. Sometimes kind of good and sometimes kind of bad. You know they have done good things and they have done bad things. Maximus is the same way. We get this flashback to him as a child being rescued by a Brotherhood of Steel soldier and we see in his character that he's got all of these goals and ambitions to help people and be a hero and yet the way he goes about it is not very noble which makes him a fascinating character. I love him. I love the way he's portrayed. I can't wait to see more of him. I enjoyed how they explored the initiate lifestyle. We do get brief glimpses of what appeared to be the entrances to bunkers very much as they appeared in Fallout New Vegas. What surprised me is that the Brotherhood initiates seemed to be surprised at the arrival of the Casuanan, the giant airship that looks exactly like the Pridwin. They seemed to be surprised by the arrival of Knights in T60 Power Armor which gave me the impression that the Brotherhood or at least this small bunker that Maximus is a part of is not a ruling force in the wasteland. They're not currently patrolling the roads or anything like that. They're off in their bunkers. As they should be that's what the Brotherhood does. They stay in their bunkers. They avoid contact with the outside world unless absolutely necessary. They recruit only from within their own ranks with the exception of Maximus Brotherhood of Steel on the east coast. They're reclusive. They're distrustful of outsiders. They're a little arrogant. I got the impression that the west coast Brotherhood in this show was more like a conglomerate of smaller individual bunkers that communicated and coordinated with each other. Power Armor is depicted as a rare resource and I think that's exactly as it should be depicted. Seeing the Knights in Power Armor was a surprise even to Brotherhood of Steel initiates. Getting to where pursuit of Power Armor was something that the initiates aspired to. It was something most initiates never got to achieve and wearing the suit of Power Armor makes you nigh invulnerable. In the games it kind of feels like Power Armor is a useful type of armor but it's not necessary. You can build a really strong character without the need for Power Armor, particularly in 76, where wearing Power Armor can oftentimes be a detriment. But I believe that Power Armor was always designed from the very beginning to be the ultimate form of armor that makes you incredibly powerful. And that's the way it feels in the show. When Maximus is wearing Power Armor he's not indestructible but they make the Power Armor feel like it's nearly indestructible. He can take a barrage of bullets and walk right through them. For the most part I love the way that Power Armor is depicted in the show. I've got a couple issues. The helmet one that we talked about in my last video, it's a small issue, it doesn't really bother me. But the hand jets. We talk about the hand jets just a second. I know they didn't show this off in the trailer, but I feel like I can talk about it because I have seen other media depict the hand jets. Yeah, in a very iron man way. Okay, so in the Fallout games, particularly in Fallout 4 and Fallout 766, you can add an attachment, a modification to your Power Armor that gives you a jet pack. But it's on your back. It's a jet pack that's attached to the back of your Power Armor. And this was clearly something that was a part of Power Armor before the bomb's dropped. We see magazine covers that show a fleet of soldiers in Power Armor flying through the air using their jet packs. But instead of a jet pack on the back of the T60, they've given him hand jets in a very iron man marvel sort of way. And I am a little disappointed about that. I realize it's not a big deal. It's certainly not a huge lore-breaking issue. But I don't see why they couldn't have just gone with the jet pack on the back. One of the things I've always liked about Power Armor is that it's very different from every other sort of mechanized suit we've seen. It doesn't remind me of the space marines from the Warhammer universe, like the space marines from the Starcraft universe, too. It didn't remind me of the Iron Man suits. It was sort of its own thing. And I feel like that uniqueness of the Power Armor suit is cheapened a little bit by trying to make it look a bit more like an Iron Man suit of armor. What was so bad about the jet pack? Pretty early in the show, they mentioned the Enclave. I remember sitting in the theater and whincing when they did. Because players of the games know that the Enclave has been thoroughly defeated. It was thoroughly defeated during the events of Fallout 2. And yet somehow there were some enclave remnants that left Navarro and ventured east whereupon they were thoroughly defeated during the events of Fallout 3. Which is why during the events of Fallout New Vegas, the Enclave barely shows their face. There are some enclave remnants that do appear in the game. But they're not part of any organized enclave force. They've integrated into NCR society. They're scientists and retirees. We can optionally group them together to turn them into an effective force, but they never try to reform the enclave as it existed during the events of Fallout 2. So when they mentioned the enclave in the show, I wince. But then later they refer to them as enclave remnants. And I felt relief. Because the enclave shouldn't exist, I don't think, as a strong cohesive entity in the Fallout universe again after having been so thoroughly defeated, not once but twice in the Fallout games. But for them to exist as remnants, that's better. That makes a bit more sense. They weren't all completely obliterated with the destruction of the oil rig or Navarro. They weren't all completely obliterated with the destruction of Eden and the mobile base crawler. There might have been a few people who survived a few pockets here and there that made it. These are the remnants. And that I can buy. However, the first two episodes don't really explain what the enclave is doing in the show. They're mentioned and we see somebody who is at one point described as a member of the enclave remnants, but yet doesn't act like one. He's a scientist. He's doing a number of experiments. He's experimenting on dogs like Dr. Schrieber was at Navarro during Fallout 2. And he's also working on chips, injectable chips. What's interesting about this character is that he uses a lot of Valtek technology. And he doesn't appear to get along with other enclave scientists. If that's what they are, something happens at one point that causes him to flee wherever it was he was with all of the other scientists, which is why he stumbles upon Lucy and the other characters in Philly. We don't know what his motives are. We don't really know what he's doing in the wasteland, at least not by the end of the first two episodes. But his role appears to be a really important one. When I was at the recreation of Philly in Austin, I had the opportunity to meet Todd Howard and I briefly talked with him. I mentioned an interview that he gave where he said that there were a few things that the showrunners did where he reflected and said, wow, why didn't we think about that? And I asked him what he meant by that. What are some of the things the showrunners did that he wished he had done in the games? And he mentioned two things to me. He said that they spent time exploring the lifestyle of Brotherhood soldiers while they're in training. Life behind the scenes, so to speak, of a Brotherhood soldier, which we saw a little bit of during the first few episodes, and that they further explored Vault-Tec lore, which intrigued me because we didn't see a lot of that in the first two episodes. Unless some of the enclave stuff that they touched on might be connected to the Vault-Tec stuff. So I'm really interested to see where the show goes in terms of enclave storytelling and Vault-Tec lore. Okay, here's my biggest concern. We do see this woman pretty early in the first couple of episodes. However, we don't know that she's related in any way to the NCR. In fact, the NCR doesn't come up at all in the first two episodes. The only reason I know that the NCR is mentioned in the show is because we briefly see the NCR flag during the trailer. In the trailer, this woman apparently leads a band of NCR soldiers in the defense of the Griffith Observatory, which presumably is a new NCR base. But in the first two episodes, she appears in a completely different context, and I can't talk about it further without giving away storyline spoilers. But I will say that I find it hard to understand how the woman we see in the first two episodes can also be the same woman who's leading the NCR in the trailer. The NCR is a government. It values laws and orders and yes bureaucracy, but it doesn't value lawlessness. It doesn't tolerate murder theft, anti-social behavior. This character engages in conduct that is completely antithetical to the values of the NCR, which is why it's hard for me to understand how she could be affiliated with the NCR, knowing what I know about her behavior in the first two episodes. Now there's plenty of ways this can be explained. Perhaps she's not part of the NCR and she's just a mercenary working for the NCR in the same way that Kellogg wasn't really part of the institute. He was just a mercenary working for the institute. Okay, maybe. I guess my big fear that I now have after having watched the first two episodes is that they've turned the NCR into a completely different organization. It's no longer an organization that values democracy and that has votes. It's now a mob, a terrorist cell, something the NCR has never been before. This bothers me. But of course, as we all know, we're never changes. When you look at the world building of the Fallout Universe, you realize that it's actually kind of cynical. And in that vein, there are a few factions within the Fallout Universe that are perfect. Those that approach perfection tend to be fairly weak and ineffectual, the followers of the apocalypse, the Minutemen. But any faction that has any emoticum of power tends to glaring imperfections as well. And that's definitely true of the NCR. This was explored thoroughly during the events of Fallout and Vegas. The NCR has done things that are not to be proud of. They've annexed towns against the will of the people who have lived in those towns. We explored some of the sins of the NCR and my series on the powder gangers, for example. But there are also the only faction in the wasteland that even comes close to establishing a true democracy. They do have voting. They have a senate. They have an elected president. They're not perfect, but they're the closest thing in the post-apocalypse that we get to a democracy. And so I'm sad to think that they've become something entirely different. But democracies have fallen in the Fallout Universe already. I suppose I shouldn't be too surprised if new democracies also fall. I am thrilled with the tone and setting of the show. The pre-war segments nail it. The anti-communist sentiment. The googie style and architecture. There is plenty of humor and sarcasm in the post-apocalypse, but it never even comes close to approaching slapstick. Okay, there was one scene where Maximus loses control of his power armor and sort of flies through the air that was a bit much. It was a bit much. But aside from that, the humor seems grounded in the world. It's good to have humor, it's good to have light-hearted moments, but it has to exist within the confines and the bounds of that universe. It can't violate the foundational structure of that universe. And nothing I saw in the first two episodes did. There were genuinely touching moments as well. Moments of horror and astonishment, where humor would have been inappropriate. And the show took those moments seriously. They did a great job with the music, playing many of the favorites Fallout fans are familiar with, listening to Diamond City Radio and Galaxy News Radio, favorites from the 40s and 50s, and adding new ones that are thematically appropriate. The first two episodes are by necessity, I think, a little slow. And that's because they used the first two episodes to introduce the three major characters and three major factions, Vault dwellers and their Unique Society, the Brotherhood of Steel and their Unique Society, and the Wasteland with its chaos and lawlessness. That's a lot of world-building that you've got to get through, and so it did feel a little slow. But there are still plenty of moments of action even in the very first episode. And it's a very violent show. Like it's really, really violent. Look, I like violent games and violent movies and all of that, but I can't get a bit squeamish when it comes to gore, and I was wincing a lot while watching this. There were moments that had just made me cringe in my seat, someone sitting next to be even commented on it. And of course that's right in line with the games. Going all the way back to Fallout 1, the Fallout franchise has just been gloriously bloody from the very beginning, and the show is no exception. So, where does that leave us? Well, in my opinion, I think they nailed the tone, they nailed the setting, and the plot is interesting. I left wanting to watch the next episode. The story has raised some small minor issues, many of which have already been raised in the games themselves, and it's raised some bigger, more consequential issues. But I have to remind myself that I'm only two episodes in. There's still plenty of time for the showminers to explain everything. I think it's totally possible for them to alleviate my concerns about the NCR in a satisfactory way in the remaining episodes of the show. I'm really curious, and even a little anxious to see how they resolve that. I for one am eager to see the series, and I'm looking forward to exploring the lore they lay out in the series in context with the lore of the other games. But what are your thoughts? Is there anything I mentioned or brought up that is a non-starter for you? Or did something stand out and thoroughly excite you for the show? Let me know your thoughts in the comments section below. I publish new Fallout episodes each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss the next one, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already, but you're still not getting YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a plush for sale. It's in stock, but I've got limited quantities, and I've already sold over half of them. If you don't want to miss out on your very own Oxorn plush, snag one now before I sell out. I also have a merch shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's, and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop on the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in another way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comments sections of my videos and access to Oxy Mochies that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with more Fallout videos and more live streams.