In our last episode, we tracked the enclave back to the military base, only to discover that they had been there and abandoned it. But while there, we discovered that they had done a survey of the ruins of a nearby city. Could they still be there? Could our kidnapped tribe be there? Having that way, we discovered the city of San Francisco, and one of the only parts of the city left standing is Chinatown. Never thought I'd see San Francisco, says Cassidy. After parking our highway man beneath a Chinese archway, we can start to explore. We'll begin by heading right, the square building is empty, but we can go down an alleyway. We see a man standing outside a door. Don't try anything funny, he says. Moving inside, we see that it's a shop. Hi! Welcome to Red Tripleight Guns. I'm my dog Chiang, the owner. How can I help you? Well, you can start by telling me about this place we can say. And he says, we have lived here for years. But we did not always live here. Dr. Fung knows the complete history. Albert, what you're looking for is what we do now. Yep, we can say. Now he says we are mainly fishermen and scientists. Our fishermen catch fish. Our scientists are working on a project that they say will change the world. Change the world, we can say. How? I do not know, says Chiang. They keep their secrets to themselves. I see, we can say. Well, what else is happening in town? We have two rivals of martial arts in town, he says. They are Lopan, a lover of self, and the dragon who loves others. It is said that whoever wins will determine the future of martial arts. I see, we can say. Anything else in town? There's a gang of vagrants who have moved into the Poseidon oil tanker on the wharf. There were monsters living inside it, but the vagrants have sealed them into the lower hull. Though they are outsiders, we are grateful to the victors for this task. Well, we can say I was looking for some weaponry. Ah, a weapon, eh? Well, this is what I have, he says. Chiang here has one of the best vendor inventories in the entire game. Not only does he have nearly $5,000 to barter with, but he's got 2mm EC ammunition for the Gouse Rifle and pistol, an ammunition of every type here. Just absolutely tons of it. He's got the upgraded Vindicator Minigun, which is the most powerful burst weapon in the game against Armor. Though the Avenger Minigun directly below it is the most powerful burst weapon in the game against unarmored targets. Moving over to the other table, we can explore a completely different inventory. Here we find armors, and we find some power armor. Well, we waited this long to find a free suit, and now we can buy a suit, but it's really expensive. $26,562. No thanks. I do want to get other suits for Cassidy and Suleik, but let's see if we can find some instead of spending so much money. On this shopped inventory, we find a few weapons as well. Of note, there is the Super Sledge, which deals more damage than any other melee weapon in the game. Though because it has the weapon knockback perk, it can be tricky to get more than one hit in on a target with this weapon in one round. Better to use a low AP high damage melee weapon, then finish them off with a knockback with the Super Sledge at the end. And beneath this is a Gatling Laser. Since this weapon uses the Microfusion's sound, which is fairly abundant, it can be a more preferable alternative to the Vindicator Minigun, which uses the very rare 4.7mm caseless ammunition. That said, because it's a Gatling Laser targets in power armor, like enclave soldiers, are extremely resistant to its damage. Now, these shop inventories change over time. The armor table can sometimes have different armors in stock, and the weapon table can sometimes have the Gauss pistol and Gauss rifle in stock. Like the Gauss pistol and the sniper rifle, it has the longest weapon range in the game, 50 hexes, and it deals more damage than the Gauss pistol. Between 32 to 43 damage, compared to the pistols, 22 to 32. But it consumes one more action point. 5. Compared to the pistols 4. And it has a higher ammo capacity. 20. Compared to the pistols 12, meaning we can go through entire fights without having to reload this sucker. Really, its biggest drawback, like what the pistol is, is the scarcity of its ammunition. One of the best places to find it in the game is at this shop. So I'm gonna buy a stack whenever I see it. There is a room attached to the triple-ite, but there's nothing in any of the containers. Now, this is a theme that we're gonna see time and time again here in San Francisco. There are dozens of buildings here. Almost all of them are completely empty, presumably their private homes, and the owners are out walking about. There are multiple dozens of containers in this town, and all of them are empty. I was shocked. I went through every single bookcase, locker, foot locker, table, desk, in all of Chinatown, and every single one was empty. I was so surprised by this that I googled it, and apparently it's a well-known and frustrating fact that every container in this town is empty. So if you got a Chinatown, don't bother with the containers. Huge waste of time. Moving back to the center of town, we discover an arena, and a fight is going on. The barrel-chested man who looks like a tribal is victorious. Your kung fu is no good here, he says. I'll beat you some day, Dragon, says the man in the red shirt. I'll be waiting for you, Lopon, says the Dragon, and with that they vanish. And we see why all of the houses in this town are empty. Literally everyone is walking around the streets here. Perhaps they were watching the fight, and they're really, really chatty. Constantly talking. We're smarter than you think. Work, work, work. Rice, rice, rice. Sigh. Leave us in peace. Look, allow why. I googled this, and apparently allow why is Chinese slang for foreigner, primarily used by Chinese to describe quite Europeans. It's kind of like the Spanish green go. The Dragon is a hero, down with Lopon. Fish and seaweed, that's all we get. Those punks are always so loud. These must be the vagrants we heard about who moved into the nearby tanker. You look like a habalogist. Oh, that's right, the habalogists are here. We've got that letter that we got in NCR to deliver to AHS9. Well, when we're done people watching, we can move into the big square building to the right. Again, as with every container in this town, the lockers and desks are empty. But here we do find one person to talk with. Help you with something he says? Yeah, I'm hurt. And it looks like you're a doctor, we can say. And this doctor can heal us for a hundred bucks. He also acts as a vendor. He has a hundred bucks to barter with, and sells a stash of medication. Who are you, we can ask? Who am I? I am Dr. Fung. I teach, and I heal. Oh, Dr. Fung. This is the guy Chang told us to talk to if we wanted more history of San Francisco. Dr. Fung, we can say, do you know Doc Holliday? Holliday, he says, yes, I taught him all he knows. Where is he now? He's living in Broken Hills, we can say. He went home, did he? Says Dr. Fung. I hope he has found peace there. We remember that when we met Doc Holliday at Broken Hills, he told us his story, and we learned that his wife died. That's probably why Fung said that he hopes Holliday finds peace. I think he has found peace we can say, can you tell me more about this place? And he says, you have come to the right person. Would you like the lawn history or the short one? Well, what kind of lore video would it be if I went with the short history? I'll take the lawn history, please. The lawn version is this, says Dr. Fung. We are here because our people are the descendants of the crew of a nuclear submarine called the Shi Huangti. I think this roughly translates to first emperor. When the missiles fell in the Great Deluge, the systems aboard the submarine failed, and we drifted in the dark from many days. At last we drifted ashore. We found ourselves near the ruins of San Francisco. Most of the city was devastated in the war. We had to recreate society based on the few survivors who had crept back into the city. We rebuilt with what we could find, and we have scientists and technology the world must envy. We are rebuilding civilization, but not as that horrid master creature did. If we ask him for the short version, he says, our people landed here on the submarine the Shi Huangti, when the missiles exploded over the world. With the aid of a cult, we, the Shi, rebuilt San Francisco. That's the short version. Interestingly, the short version gives us information that he doesn't share in the longer version. The Shi rebuilt San Francisco alongside a cult. Likely the cult of the habulogists, which I suppose means they have as much right to be here as the Shi do. So these are the descendants of the Communist Chinese soldiers aboard a submarine off the shore of San Francisco when the bombs dropped, and they settled in Chinatown appropriately. But how did they get their technology? Dr. Fung here can do dermal implants, just like the doctors at Redding and Vault City, though he's much more expensive. Moving out of the clinic, we can cross the street. Here we find a long rectangular building and a door hidden on this eastern wall. Heading inside, we find another shop. Greetings, welcome to my shop, the Flying Dragon Eight. Who were you we can ask? I'm Lo Chow, I run this establishment, Flying Dragon Eight, a general store. I've been known to trade in information. What sort of information we can ask? Little happens in town that I do not know about. Of course, you must know the right question to ask, yes? What do you need to know? And at this point in our exploration of San Francisco, we can't ask him much. All we can say is, I'm looking for some upgrades to my equipment. Talk to Crucket over in the Habologist's camp, he says, he is their head scientist. It sounds like at some point in the future we may be able to come back to this guy to get more information. But he is a vendor, and just like Cheg across the street, he sells a ton of ammunition, and has nearly $4,000 to barter with. He can also sell the expanded lock pick, which when used gives us a 40% bonus to lock picking, compared to the regular lock pick, which only grants a 20% bonus. He also sells a number of books, consumables, and tools, including the SHIV, which was supposed to be a weapon, but due to a bug can't actually be used. On his other table, we find another suit of power armor. He sells Jimmy Hats, and has a small selection of weapons, but these we've all seen before. Like with Cheg across the street, his inventory will change over time. Another time I came here, he had over $8,000 to barter with, and he had the Magneto Laser Pistol, which is just an upgraded regular laser pistol. It has the same stats as regular laser pistol, but this one has the weapon penetrate perk, which removes one fifth of the target's DT. The other table can have micro fusion cells, and a completely different selection of consumables. Moving west out the back door, we find a corral, and on the other side of this is another familiar bunker. Talking with the man standing outside, hello Oxhorn, what can I do for you? How do you know who I am we can ask? We know many things, he says. Well who are you guys? We are a paramilitary organization known as the Brotherhood of Steel. Okay, says the chosen one, and what is it that you do? At one time he says, we were the sole bastions of technology left on the planet. We set ourselves up as what could be best called technology police. We hoarded the old knowledge, and only doled it out in small parcels. Of course, it was only to those who we felt deserved it, and had the wisdom to properly use it. I suppose that means they felt the residents of won't 13 deserve to have a giant computer. We said, at one time, we can say, what about now? Several months ago he says, we came across a group known as the Unclave. Much to our surprise, their level of technology surpassed even our own. We found this quite disturbing and considered contacting them. However, we decided on a more cautious course of action until we could determine exactly who the Unclave was, and the underlying purpose of their organization. To this end, we have reactivated small outposts near areas of Unclave activity, from which we can safely observe them. Currently, we have activated such outposts in the den, the NCR, and here in San Francisco. Sounds interesting, we can say. What have you learned? We have found, he says, that the Unclave deals heavily in kems, weapons, and slaves. However, these are simply trivial pursuits leading up to some higher purpose, which we have failed to uncover. We are still watching them. Before we go any further, we can say, why tell me all of this now? And he sighs, the Unclave has developed a vertebrae technology, flying machines that allow them to move deeply into surrounding territories. Without similar technology to counter this threat, the brotherhood would be unable to stop an invasion launched by the Unclave. We need to have vertebrae technology, or a viable counter to it for ourselves. Now, recently, the Unclave established a base north of here called Novaro. It's used as a stopover point for the maintenance and refueling of vertebrae birds. It's my belief that such a base may have complete technical plans of the vertebrae birds. All I need is for someone to infiltrate the base, steal the plans, and bring them here to me. Let me guess, says the chosen one, you want me to infiltrate the base for you. Let me be frank with you, Oxford, and he says, the brotherhood of steel is not the power that we once were. We believed ourselves to be the sole sources of technology left to mankind. Secure in this belief, we have let our order decline over the years. Now we don't have the resources at our disposal to deal with the Unclave. We need your help. I am prepared to make you this offer. Perform this mission for me, and I will grant you access to our facility here. The best of the brotherhood technology will be made available to you, exclusively. What do you say? What the hell says the chosen one? I must be crazy, but I'll do it. Excellent, he says. Here's what I need you to do. Go to Navarro, infiltrate the base, and recover the technical plans for the vertebrates. Return the plans to me. All right, we can say, but just how do you think I should go about this? This is a military base, after all. Navarro, he says, is relatively new and not fully staffed as yet. My sources tell me that they received new recruits from time to time. Perhaps if you went in alone, you could pose as a new arrival. I would suggest that you could have your friends wait here. Okay, you mentioned your sources. Who would they be? And he says, I had an operative go and scout the base. Her reports recently stopped. I can only assume the worst. Please be careful, Luxorn. I don't enjoy sending people to their deaths. I'll be careful, we can say. Thanks. Upon successful completion of your mission, he continues. I will grant you access to our facility here. In the meantime, it would be best if you got started immediately. Thank you, Luxorn. Sure thing we can say, but I'd like to ask you a few questions first. Why is it that nobody around here mentions you? And he says, we've had this base for years. By maintaining it as low level with minimal staffing, never drawing attention to ourselves, we've achieved anonymity. We leave the she alone, and they leave us alone. Well, why do you have only one person here we can ask? Too many people in any one place can attract attention, he says. One man in a city of many men is less noticeable. If we try to open the bunker before completing this mission, he says, this is private property. So, move along. So we want us to go to Navarro to get Fertabird plans. And we learned a lot about what Navarro is. It's a refueling station and stopover point for enclave vertebrates, which means it's likely in at the place they bring their captured slaves, which means we've got to go someplace else to rescue our tribe. But at this point, we have no idea where that else may be. So our only lead is to head to Navarro to see what we can find there. Now this Brotherhood guy suggested that we do this immediately. But first, let's finish exploring Chinatown. After exploring a few completely empty buildings, we can enter the big square one, just west of the fighting ring in the middle of town. Here we find a bunch of training equipment, and the men in the red shirt, the man who lost to the dragon. What do you want? He says, who was that you were fighting, we can ask? Him, he says, the dragon, he's a weakling who fosters weakness. Oh, okay. I mean the dragon did just beat this guy, but he's a weakling, whatever. So what then? You're evil? And he says evil, hardly, just smart. Maybe if you're so concerned about doing the right thing by people, you should go see the dragon. He likes simpering weaklings like you. Who are you, we can ask? And he says, I am Lopan. I am also the sworn enemy of the dragon. Why he insists on having a sworn enemy is beyond me, I just fight as well as him. And I think he's weak-hearted and allows others to live under his shadow. We're enemies because we have the same fighting style, and whoever wins will be the one who carries the tradition. Now if we say to this guy, I'm not too bad at hand to hand combat myself, want to give me a try? We have to pass an unarmed check. And if our unarmed skill is too low, Lopan studies us and then throws a quick punch, which smacks us on the nose before we can even react. You are not good enough, he says. Well, okay then, I want to learn to fight like you. Teach me, we can say, and this time we have to pass a karma check. And if our karma is too good, Lopan says, teach you. I don't think so. You look far too self-righteous. Get out of here. What the? Says the chosen one. If we try to talk to him again, he says, didn't I tell you to talk to the dragon about your moral qualms? He'll hold your hand. I won't. Now leave. Well, looks like we can get very far with this guy. The buildings back here and all of the containers inside are empty. We see a fence to the north. We'll explore that in a bit. Moving back south towards the fighting ring in the middle of town, we can enter the building just northeast of it with a small garden outside. Inside we find another gem. And here we can talk to the dragon. How may idea of assistance says the dragon? Who was that you were fighting we can ask? That was Lopan, he says. He is my sworn enemy and my rival. If he triumphs over me, then I fear for the good of the people. Then you must triumph we can say. That I must, he says. Yet we are still evenly matched, I fear. Even in our followers we are matched. It will take one person to throw the balance. I am that person we can say. And he says, are you? Perhaps we should test you. We will only have him bested in honest combat. Sounds fair to me we can say, how does this test work? But if our unarmed skill is not high enough, the dragon studies us. And he says, I regretfully cannot let one of your skill level hurt themselves. Well teach me how to fight then we can say, here we again have to pass a karma check. And if our karma is good enough, the dragon agrees. Then we will begin he says, we appear in the ring in the middle of town. Let us begin he says, follow my lead. We go through a bunch of unarmed punching moves. This is the exact same experience we get if we are playing an evil karma character. The only difference is that we can't get training from the dragon and instead we can get training from Lopan. When done we appear back at the dragon's dojo and he says training is done for the day. With that our unarmed skill increases. When we ask him to teach us to fight again, he says, lessons are more than just physical grasshopper. Ponder this and return tomorrow. Both the dragon and Lopan refuse to train us more than once each day. We can get this training each day until either Lopan or the dragon increases our unarmed skill by up to around 90%. We know we have reached that point when either the dragon or Lopan says, there is nothing more I can teach you. Now it's best if we receive this training wearing our vault suit. Certainly not wearing any power armor because power armor increases our strength and increased strength increases our unarmed skill. So if we receive training without wearing power armor, we can push our unarmed percentage up even higher. Then put on our power armor and it goes up even more. Once our unarmed skill is high enough, we can go back to either the dragon or Lopan and pass that unarmed check. And when they say that they have to defeat the other master, we can again say, I am that person and then ask them how the test will work. In this case I'm working with the dragon. The dragon says, first you only need to prove you can do it. I will have you go up against five of my fighters one at a time. If you beat them, you will receive your final test. And what's that we can ask? Humbly, I will test your abilities myself he says. However, none of these battles will be to the death. Okay, we can say let's do this. And we appear in the ring in the middle of town. This is one of the buggyest quests in the entire game. Not only did it cause my game to crash to desktop innumerable times, which may have more to do with the age of the game on a modern system than anything else. But there are innumerable scripting errors. I didn't even know where to begin. Even though both the dragon and Lopan say that these are not fights to the death, it really is. They can kill us and we can kill them. Now each of these fighters can turn around and run away, but it's incredibly easy to kill them. Which doesn't make any sense within the context of this test, because I'm trying to help the dragon, and he's testing me and I'm fighting his fighters. But I end up killing them on accident. And apparently that's okay. The fight continues. Then there's the time I accidentally killed one of the dragon's fighters, and did combat, and nothing happened. I was stuck in this cage, and I couldn't leave, starting combat, and ending it again didn't do anything. Couldn't talk to anyone outside of the cage. I was forced to reload. Then there was the time I knocked out a guy. I won the match, he gave up, but the guy didn't disappear from the ring. So when the next match started, I was stuck fighting two of these guys. Then there's the time I won the match, but my enemy didn't realize I had won. The screen went black, and he just kept attacking me. I spent over an hour playing and replaying this test due to all of these weird bugs just to get the necessary footage. But this is how it's supposed to go. The fight starts with the dragon's weakest student. I am Zurok. Be ready, he says. This guy's pretty easy to defeat, but each student gets progressively tougher. I found that it took an unarmed skill of 100 or greater to go all the way to the end. The second guy says, I am Jimmy. Prepare yourself. The third guy says, I am Herb. You will get no further. The fourth guy says, I am Job. It's your time to be beaten. The fifth guy says, I am Master Rube. You are finished. And if we defeat Master Rube, we strangely face a sixth guy. The dragon told us we were only going to fight five of them, but this isn't the dragon even though he looks like the dragon. He says, I am Master Ziggy. You are final test. After defeating Master Ziggy, we appear back in the dragon's Dojo. You are truly amazing in your fighting skills. Will you fight Lopan? Yes, I'll do it right now, we can say. Heading back down to Lopan's Dojo, we can say, I wish to challenge you. Great, he says. I hope you have a grave ready. Did the dragon send you? Yes, we can say. I am doing this for the she. Then you are a fool and a dog doing the bidding of others. Says Lopan. I will laugh when you die. We can either attack now with armor and weapons, but that turns everyone in Chinatown hostile, even the dragon and his followers. So we have to do this honorably. We can enter the ring, remove armor and weapons, and fight hand to hand. And here's yet another glitch. Mr. Ziggy is still in the ring, as well as the bodies of the other students I killed earlier. Thankfully Mr. Ziggy doesn't fight, so I was able to a fight Lopan by himself. However, halfway through the fight, Lopan shouts, look what I found, and he pulls out a gun. But inspecting our inventory, since we decided to do things honorably, we don't have anything here. So we've got to defeat him with our fists. Thankfully, I managed to do so. We appear back in Lopan's Dojo. Life holds no meaning, says his followers. We are dishonored. We should be dead like Lopan. Lopan is dead, and our dreams are crushed. Our leader, Strykin! Lopan was the last great leader. Heading over to the dragons, Dojo. Lopan is dead, he says. I have you to think I'm sure. Now I am confident that my school will lead our fighting style into the future. Great, by, we can say. And we get 3000 experience. The dragons followers shout, ha ha, that bastard Lopan is dead. Long live the dragon, or we can of course, side with Lopan, and the quest plays out similarly. Instead of saying, what, you're supposed to be evil, we can say, the people are sheep. You should serve yourself. And Lopan says, yes I should, and I do. Unfortunately, the dragon stands in the way. We are too evenly balanced in our fight against each other. I just need one trained person to help me. I am that person we can say, are you, he says. Can you fight a manhand to hand, foot to face, without relying on armor and weapons? I can, but why should I, we can say? And he says because otherwise the peasants will curse me, and it'll make it that much harder to cow them when I've beaten the dragon. Got it, we can say, let's start the test. And here we pass the unarmed check. And if our unarmed skill is high enough, he says, first, you will need to prove that you can do it. I will have you go up against five of my fighters one at a time. If you beat them, you will receive your final test. What's that we can ask? You will need to defeat me. However, none of these battles will be to the death. To protect my men of course, and he sneers. Let's get it on, we can say. And just like when siding with the dragon, we appear in the ring. I am imbought. Be ready, he says. But this fight has all of the strange scripting errors as the one with the dragon. Even though this is not supposed to be a fight to the death, we can kill these guys. In the second fight, I am Weezoum. Prepare yourself, he says. In the third fight, I am Lupal. You will get no further. In the fourth fight, I am smitty. It's your time to be beaten. And for our fifth challenger, I am Master Cron. You are finished. But like with the dragon, Lopon here lied. We have to fight a sixth person. And it's not Lopon himself. I am Master Coon. Your final test, he says. And if we are successful, we appear back in Lopon's Dojo. You are, I must admit, even better a fighter than I am. You want to try for the dragon? Yes, I'll do what we can say. Then heading on over to the dragon's Dojo, we can say I wish to challenge you. First, says the dragon, we determine if you wish this to be a fight to the finish or a test of your skills against mine. And it doesn't matter what we choose here. Because either way, we die or they die. Very well, says the dragon. Let us enter the ring and fight until one of us can no longer move. Again, we have the option to attack with armor and weapons, but we know that turns everyone hostile, so we'll enter the ring without any armor or weapons. And away we go, shout the dragon. This fight plays out much like all of the others except when the dragon gets low in health, he does not pull out a weapon. He fights honorably to the end. When victorious, we appear back in the dragon's Dojo. And as we head to Lopan, his followers say, life has no meaning. The dragon is dead. Isn't there more to life than this? Back at Lopan, the dragon is dead. I don't believe it. At least now we won't have those pesky traditions dogging our every step. Thanks. Great. Bye, says the chosen one. With that, we have decided the fate of who teaches martial arts in Chinatown for the foreseeable future. But that's it for Chinatown. To the north, we see two exit grids. One leads to the oil tanker where we learned vagrants have moved in, and where we know we'll find some monsters, and one leads to the homologists. A cult that co-founded San Francisco. We need to go here to deliver our letter to AHS9. But then we see an exit grid to the east. This leads to the emperor of the she. We'll tackle each of these stories in a minute, but since they're not pertinent to our primary quest, which is finding out where our tribes people are, we now need to head to Navarro. Perhaps there, while we're looking for the vertebrae blueprints, we can find out what happened to our tribes people. I publish a new Fallout videos each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss that episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxwarn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. I've been to Project Purity. Confound your friends and family who recognize the Jefferson Memorial, but have no idea what Project Purity is. This design comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's, and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find it on other products as well, like smartphone cases, posters, mug, stickers, prints, etc. So with interest, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do when you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon, with more brand new videos.