female In our last episode, we put down a rebellion in the Institute. We have dealt with all institute emergencies. And so now, we can finally check in with Ali Fillmore to see exactly how she needs our help. Dr. Fillmore. Busy day for you, isn't it? Well, it's about to get busier. You're going to lead this operation I'm told. What the hell is this operation about? Hey, relax. We wouldn't send you off without the proper information. I need some details here. I have no idea what I'm getting into. Of course, that's why we're talking. Otherwise, you'd be up top already. Not a chance. I'm not doing anything. Look, I get that there's a lot going on right now and this is all moving pretty fast. You're not the only one that feels it. Fact is, this won't work unless we've got you. So take some time, mallet over, and get back to me. Okay? Absolutely. Let's go over the details. Recent events have upset our timetable. Getting the reactor online has become our number one priority. It needs to be running, well, yesterday. We're going to have to cut some corners. I'm not thrilled, but it means we'll need to rely on some pre-war tech. You're going to the mass fusion building to acquire a burillion agitator for us. What's a burillion agitator? The details would be lost on you. No offense. The point is, it'll allow us to boost the reactor's power and get it running sooner than planned. You just keep me safe. I'll worry about the agitator. Oh, man, I have one of those, but it's in my other pants. You wouldn't recognize one if it fell on your head. That's why I'm going to retrieve it. That sounds dangerous. And you place above ground as its risks, but that's why you're in charge. You're there to protect me. Consider it done. I'll consider it done when I got it in my hands. I'm going with you. Is that really necessary? I'm sure I can handle this by myself. Yes, it really is. Not only is this tech sensitive, it's all. Look, I'll take care of it. You just make sure I come back in one piece. You're going? That complicates things. Not really. No. I admit I'm not fond of going up top, but I promise to stay out of your way. This device we're after, it's very sensitive equipment, and it's pretty damn old. It's not that I don't trust you. It's just that I trust myself more. So, are you going to put up a stink? Or can we get moving? At this point, we could insist that she stay here at the institute. No way. You're not going. You'd be a liability. Well, that's about the most insulting thing I've heard in a while. Okay, you're on your own then. Good luck. If we want to avoid insulting her like that, we can agree. Sounds good. I'd appreciate the company. Not as much as I'd appreciate coming back in one piece. I don't like going above ground unless there's no other option. But here we are, with our options dwindling quickly. Not to put more pressure on you, but we have to move quickly on this. There it is that the brotherhood is nosing around the area. We don't want them getting the agitated before we do. Head on up to the relay, and I'll meet you there. Uh-oh. The brotherhood is nosing around. Why is the brotherhood exploring a pre-war nuclear power company? Do they know about the burrili-imagitator? Do they need it for their own purposes? Or do they know that the institute needs it, and they're just there to stop us? If the latter, how could they possibly know that, unless they have instituted spies? If the former, what sort of tech are they building that requires nuclear power? The last time we confronted the brotherhood at Bunker Hill, they left us alone. Perhaps they didn't realize that we were with the institute. After all, Bunker Hill is a trading city. Lots of other excuses for a guy like Nate to be there. But what kind of excuses would Nate have for arriving at Mass Fusion? I think the brotherhood might be able to figure out that we're working with the institute. This operation starts at the rooftop of Mass Fusion, which means we have to relay in. We can't walk there to start the quest. So taking the elevator all the way back up to the relay, the way we first arrived at the institute, we can enter. Playing to Mass Fusion will make you a permanent enemy of the brotherhood of steel. Are you sure you wish to proceed? Yeah, the brotherhood is not dense. If we arrive at Mass Fusion, they're going to be able to put two and two together and realize that we betrayed them. We could do nothing, but since right now we're covering the institute story, we will use the relay. The brotherhood sure is here. Guess we'll have to go through them. With that, we fail any current quest that we still have active with the brotherhood of steel. But we arrive on the rooftop of Mass Fusion. And if we agreed to allow Ali to come with us, she appears in a clean room sit. Ali. If I was a pre-war tech glomerate, why would I keep all my best toys? This wasn't really what I planned on doing today. We're on the Mass Fusion executive suite. This building was formerly swarming with gunners, but once we begin the quest Mass Fusion, the brotherhood moves in and kills all the gunners. Now we find this rooftop swarming with brotherhood. And it's a tricky fight. We've got knights on this rooftop and they wield gatling lasers. We can try to make use of the environment to do a little bit of damage. There are some explosive barrels up here, but there's also plenty of cover. It's just tricky to try and punch through this power armor with anything save a fat man. But with a little bit of time and determination, we can whittle them all down. With the brotherhood dead we can explore the place. Heading inside the ruins of the executive suite, we find a nukakola on a console and we can loot the numerous dead. There's an elevator that goes down deeper into Mass Fusion, but perhaps we can find what we need up here. Taking a staircase we can arrive on the second floor, but the floor is really ruined. It's hard to move around. Moving forward however, we find a Mass Fusion executive lab password and a Mass Fusion executive ID in an executive desk. Oh good, you found the key card. Now we can see where that elevator leads. Right next to a door leading to a small room. Moving into this room, we find a small reactor. Is this where we find the Barrelia Magetator? I don't sign of the agetator. We'll have to search the rest of the building. Oh no, of course not. That would just be too lucky. Well, looks like we're going to have to take that elevator down. But while we're up here we can continue to explore. We find some scrap and a nukakola cherry on a cabinet to the left. On a workbench we find a toolcase and a holotape, Oslo's office recording. Calm down, Noel. You knew that this was coming. I don't understand why you're acting this way. Don't tell me to calm down, Carl. When we started designing the Barrelia Magetator, you said it would be for the benefit of mankind. Instead I find out that you have been planning on turning it over to the military all along. You like to me. Don't give me that high in my de attitude. Have you picked up a newspaper lately? There's a war going on out there, Doctor. And if our side's going to win, it needs all the help it can get. I can't believe what I'm hearing. Since when did science start taking sides? What did they promise you, Carl? Money? Political favors? A goddamn medal? That's enough. Like it or not. When the testing cycle is completed, I'm creating up the agitator and sending it off to Washington. Now, you have two choices. Either you can get back to work or you can get the hell out of my building. Well, I wonder which choice, Doctor Chandritch made. But he was a little naive there. Since when did science take sides? He asks since forever, scientific advancement is oftentimes fueled by war. As evidenced by nuclear weaponry, for example, despite the absurdity of that question, I can respect the desire that his work not be used to further war. We can only delve deeper into mass fusion to see how that worked out for him. After looting a cooler and some mintats at a console we can use, the executive lab password that we got from the executive desk to access the executive research lab terminal. And here we find four entries. Mass Fusion OS version 4.86. Executive Research Lab. In the first one, July 30th, 2077. Two K Oslo from Enchandritch. Research lead. The two voices we just heard on that holotape. As per your instructions, the Berwilliam agitator has been installed in our primary reactor on sub-level one. I've also increased security on all of the key readers in the building. So you'll need your executive key card handy if you want to use any of the elevators. Okay, well that's all the information we need. The Berwilliam agitator is on sub-level one, aka a basement, and we need a key card to use the elevators to get there. Which thankfully we have. But to continue. I'd like to go on official record that I am opposed to accelerating the project schedule. I find it disturbing that current events, e.g. global unrest, hasn't had an effect on your decision. While I realize your recent contact with the US military may be making it difficult to follow a rational course of action. I strongly urge you to reconsider. I thought this is exactly why you left Poseidon. Carl? Oh, so Carl used to work at Poseidon Energy, which as we know from established lore had very close ties with the US military. So Carl Oslo creates mass fusion to presumably provide nuclear power to Massachusetts, but he becomes corrupted as well and starts working closely with the military. If we can call that corruption, Dr. Chandrich certainly would. In the next one, August 29th, 2077 a month later. Two Carl Oslo from In Chandrich Research Lead. I've been monitoring the reactor for weeks now, and the Berwilliam agitator is running at peak efficiency. In fact, I've only detected an EM spectrum decay of less than 1,000th of a percent. If you were hoping for a stable plasma reaction, it looks like you've found it. Congratulations. Perhaps you in the military should open a bottle of champagne together. Ooh, Dr. Chandrich, a little snide remark there. In the next one, September 5th, 2077 just a few days later. Two Carl Oslo from T. Ryzenbauer, HR coordinator. As of this morning, Dr. Noel Chandrich was escorted from the building and is contract with mass fusion has been terminated. His terminal's memory has been wiped and all of his research transferred to our main frame. Chandrich has been made aware that any attempt to seek employment at a rival nuclear power company will result in a lawsuit. As per his contract, his pension and benefits are now frozen. If there's anything else you need from HR, please let me know. So Carl Oslo keeps Chandrich employed long enough for him to complete and test the Berwilliam agitator. And only a few days after he's done, he fires the guy, prevents him from working at another nuclear power company and freezes all of his benefits. What's the guy supposed to do? Juggle? Poor Dr. Chandrich. In the next one, company in Tra-Mail, September 25th, 2077, about a month before the bomb dropped. All employees are invited to the 2077 holiday celebration. We'll be holding the festivities on the roof of our main headquarters this year so you'll be able to dine with a loved one while overlooking our beautiful city. A full bar and live music will be on hand as well as a special fireworks display at 10pm. Hope to see you there. Okay, well the email went out on September 25th, inviting them to the holiday celebration, but when is the holiday celebration? Perhaps we need to delve deeper to find out. With this room looted, we can move upstairs to the third floor. We see a pathway off to a balcony and an advanced locked door leading to another room. I couldn't pick this, but if I could have, inside is a wooden crate with red accent, a gold watch and a first aid kit with a stem pack and a blood pack. Moving on to the balcony, we find it mostly empty. There is an oil slick on the ground, flammable gotta be careful of that. We find a first aid kit by a chair and that's about it. So, with the entire executive suite explored, we can head back down to the main level and use the key card we got in the desk to activate the elevator that brings us down deeper into mass fusion. Going down. The elevator appears to work. Whatever has been powering this building remains intact 200 years later. The elevator emerges into a large atrium with floors and rooms on either side. But after a while, the brotherhood ambushes us. Somehow they knew that we were coming and they knew where we would come from. We find them already occupying every floor. It's a shooting gallery and we're the target. We can't move, we're stuck in this elevator. We have to shoot these guys as quickly and as accurately as possible. I'm gonna make this as painful as possible. Something's out there. Come on up. Nothing's gonna save me. At last the last one dies. We continue down towards the main floor. But then... Blow the conduit! Now! We cut the power to the elevators. It's clever. I'll give them that. The brotherhood of steel blows the conduit powering the elevator. We drop the rest of the way to this floor and more brotherhood nights fall from the ceiling. More soldiers appear on the balconies above us. We simply have to move from this open area if we want to survive. Racing forward we find a door open to the southeast. This leads to our room filled with office cubicles passing through the open door. Turn right. Turn left. To another door, pass a terminal that we'll have to come back for and up a ramp to open a door to a balcony that gives us a better vantage point to fire upon the brotherhood. Wally! Cross! Cross! Out of牧! Cross! Mass brill! Cut! Add Octarium! Oh, and with that, this floor is clear. Now to see if we can power up that elevator. Okay, back to the ground floor, into the elevator room, so we can regain our point of reference before we begin exploring. Oh, LA's already up there. Gonna come down, join me, Ali? Ooh, athletic for an institute scientist. After looting the bodies here, we can start by going through an open door to the north. This leads to an office, and here we find a mass fusion lab ski lying on a desk. Next to this key is an expert locked development managers terminal. I couldn't hack this, but if we could, inside we find lore. Art development management office, alert, a power surge has been detected in product development lab number three. Main power has been shut down to prevent damage to the facility. We find three options in the first, research intramale, July 23rd, 2077, 2W Goldberg, product development lead from Enchandrich, research lead. Everything's in place and we're almost ready to get the Burrilly imaginator online. I have Kathy Halloway working on the graphene shielding, and the reactor team is working on the power calculations. That reminds me, Ms. Hathaway's contribution to this project has been absolutely invaluable. I'd like to recommend her for advancement. See that it happens. So Chandrich was not only a principled scientist, but a good boss. In the next one, personal intramale, July 25th, 2077, 2W Goldberg, product development lead from E. Denver's Particle Theory. That kind of bull crap is Chandrich trying to pull, giving his recommendation to Hathaway. I've been that guy's slave for the last three years, and then that jerk waltzes in here and steals it all away from me. I'm telling you right now, you better do something about this, or I'm walking Goldberg. Uh oh. Sounds like one of his underlings got jealous. But you know, time isn't necessarily rewarded. It's talent, effort, and production. Did this Denver sky really deserve it more than Hathaway? Just because he had been there longer? Did Hathaway really work harder than Denver's? And the next one we find power management. We read the same alert, but then it may be possible to reroute power around the affected areas. Would you like to activate the automated rerouting procedure? We can confirm or cancel. If we confirm... Routing power management subsystem version 2.81 done, accessing building power infrastructure done, rerouting power done, main power has been restored. All systems are operating normally, and once we leave the terminal... With that we restore power. But remember this was an expert lock terminal, and there are other ways to restore power. Once this room is loaded, we head back out to the elevator room, and turn left. The closed door to the left is locked with the mass fusion labs key. This is the key we got on the desk in the last room, opening it. We find a hole leading down. This is another way out. Instead of powering up the elevator, we could drop down this hole. We won't do that just now, because we've got so much more to explore. In this room we find a tool case on our shelf and a chemistry station. And turning left from this room, we arrive in the room that we went into to reach the balcony to kill the brotherhood. Moving through the cubicles, we again arrive in a workshop. There's an armor workbench here, a tool case, and next to a big nuclear device, seeping with radiation, we find the product development terminal. Mass fusion product development, research intramale, June 20th, 2077. New K-Hathaway, the lady who got the promotion from Chandritch, Materials Division from End Chandritch, Research Lead. Kathy, I just wanted to let you know that your work on the agitator has been invaluable. The shielding has always been a problem, but the use of graphene in the alloy was a stroke of genius. I just wanted to let you know that I'll be recommending you for a promotion this year. Good work. Alright, we've got some specifics here. She deserves the promotion because she came up with a solution to a difficult problem alone, something that Denver's hadn't done after working for Chandritch for three years. In the next one, July 22nd, 2077, 2K-Hathaway, Materials Division from End Chandritch Research Lead, Kathy, would it be possible to get a full sheet of your composite alloy within the next week? Carl's pressuring me to get the Barrily Imagitator online by the end of the month, or, quote, "'Heads are going to roll,' unquote. If you're running into any problems, let me know.'" In the next one, a few days later, July 29th, 2077, 2K-Hathaway, Materials Division from End Chandritch Research Lead. You're a miracle worker, Kathy. The graphene composite shielding was the last component holding us back from getting the agitator online, and you got it done in less than a week. I don't know how I could have done this without you. Another job well done. Keep this up and you'll be a development lead in no time. We solved a problem and produced an entire sheet of the stuff in record time. I'm starting to get the idea that Denver's was simply jealous of Kathy's success. Backing out of the terminal, we find a weapons workbench here, we see a door that leads back out to the elevator floor, and a ramp that goes up to the next level. From here we arrive on a balcony and we can skirt this ledge to find one working door on the eastern side. Here we find some cubicles, and lying on a console is a copy of Tesla Science. Excellent. You've collected an issue of Tesla Science. Giant super weapons. Energy weapons permanently inflict plus 5% critical damage. Alright, righteous authority is going to work even better. Though a bit of pallidand dances were dreading giving it to me now, looting the rest of these cubicles does not produce much. We find a broken wall leading to a room but it's blocked, and then a doorway leading out to a balcony. We can, however, jump over the shelves that are in our way to find an expert locked box safe. I couldn't pick it, but if we could inside we find ammunition. We don't find any more loot in this room, but next to it is the room that the brotherhood blew up to deactivate the elevator. In this room we find a circuit breaker, and if we couldn't hack the expert locked terminal below and restart power that way, we could flip this circuit breaker to manually restart it. Now, that's it. For all of the balconies that we can access by foot, however, looking up, we see numerous floors that we passed when we came down on the elevator, and no staircase or ramp that leads to them. These are completely inaccessible. Unless we have a jetpack. I toggled the free cam just to show you what was behind these doors on this level, and aside from a few brotherhood corpses we find from time to time that managed to clip back here, we don't find any loot, no lore, nothing of interest. That is, until we get to the very top. On the second to last floor from the top, we do find one end of dungeon steamer trunk behind one of these doors. But once we get to the top, peering up, we see another level far above us. It's going to be a bit harder to get there with the jetpack, but it is possible. If we get to that level, however, the rooms have nothing, but standing on this level and peering up, we find a hole in the wall about five floors above us. This is really tricky to get to with the jetpack, but it's possible. However, it takes a tricky usage of, kems, nukikola quantum, and using a jetpack correctly to do so. But if we manage to get here with a jetpack, we find a room with a fusion core on a desk. But we're not done, standing from this hole in the wall, if we peer up, we see another hole in the wall about four floors above us to the right. We have to use the same tricks that got us to this floor to get to this next floor. And here, we find a skeleton. The skeleton lies on a chair surrounded by empty bottles of nukikola. On his desk is the intern's terminal. Product engineering intern, Jack Rockford. We find three entries and a hollow tape, and the first company entramale, September 1, 2077. Please welcome our new product engineering interns, Alessatoris, Daniel Montgomery, and Jack Rockford. As part of Mass Fusions industry leading education at work program, these talented students will have six months of intensive hands-on training in our product engineering division, while working to earn valuable college credit. In the next one, September 22, 2077, from Jay Berlin to A. Torres, D. Montgomery, and Jay Rockford, this is a reminder that company resources are not to be used for your personal projects. This includes office terminals, mainframe time, technical documentation, reference manuals, paper, pens, anything. Work on your assigned projects and stop trying to improvise. Oh, what a bummer. You think they'd want to harness the energy and creativity of these young interns. But no, I guess. And in the last one, that same day, September 22, 2077. From D. Montgomery to Jay Rockford and A. Torres, can you believe this? The only education at work I'm getting is learning to brew coffee and fetch papers from that guy in records. Vincent's, Victor, whatever. We may as well get some real work done after hours. Alyssa, how is your Fusion Cell research coming? Jack, are you really going to make those boots? The whole thing sounds a little crazy to me, even if the physics dude check out? Boots. What kind of boots? Jacking out, we can eject the holotape from the terminal and read it in our Pip-Boy. This is Jack Rockford's Long. Welcome Jack. Please select an entry. We find six entries, spanning the months of September and October, September 1, 2077. So excited to be working at Mass Fusion. The other interns seem cool. Dan's a post-doc in nuclear physics. I'm sure he'll get to work on the reactor. Alyssa's a specialist in electrical engineering and energy capture. It kind of makes material sciences sound lame, but at least we're getting along well. I guess material sciences is his specialty. And the next one, September 17, 2077? This sucks. The North Elevator was down from maintenance again today, and the South Elevator prioritizes the lower floors, so it took over an hour just to get out of the building tonight. I would have walked down, but there aren't any emergency stairs on this level. I can't believe they didn't put in stairs. Isn't that a code violation or something? What if both elevators failed? Sure, sure. Redundant systems. But it could happen. How would we get down? I don't know. Jump. In the next one, the next day, September 18, 2077? Idea. How about boots that could absorb the impact of a fall? It's like power armor. Power armor has an integrated hydraulic shock absorption system, but that's too bulky to be usable without the frame to provide support. But if you could replace the hydraulics with a kinetic repulsion system, the same principles would apply. Could be worth a try. Oh, yeah. Jump. Okay, in the next one, September 21, 2077? They work. I need some way to show them off. I heard the holiday party is up on the roof this year. That's my chance. Have a few drinks and then just, whoops, fall off the building? Can't wait to see the look on their faces. I'll get the job for sure. Until then, I'm keeping them locked in my safe. Better if this is a surprise. Are they still in the safe? In the next one, October 23, 2077? The day the bombs dropped. The key. I forgot the key. Whoops. And in the last one, October 26, 2077. It's been three days now, I think. It's hard to tell. I only stopped in for a minute. I was just going to pick up some papers and then I heard the bombs. It sounded like the whole tower was coming apart. Nearly dead. The hall outside is a wreck. I can't even get the door open. The boots are in the safe, but I can't get them out. I drank the last of the Nukakola last night. All I can do now is wait. Poor Jack. He invented some fancy boots that would get him out of this predicament, but he forgot the key to the safe. And here he lies, skeletonized, still surrounded by empty bottles of Nukakola. Well, that must mean the safe is here. And it's locked with a novice lock. We can pick this. Taking the safe, we find the freefall leg armor set. Each piece prevents 50% falling damage, which means to be completely immune from falling damage, we have to wear both pieces. I covered the full details of the freefall legs, how to optimize the way they look when they spawn, how to get the best version for your character in my video on the freefall legs that you can watch here. But now that we've got them, we can take them for a spin. Allie up. And they work. Thanks Jack. I will say that the freefall legs don't spawn if you use console commands to get up here. The spawn trigger for the freefall legs to appear in the safe is on the very edge of this floor by the opening on the wall. And your player character has to physically walk through there while clipping is enabled in order to get the freefall legs to spawn. So you have to use a jetpack to physically get up here to get the freefall legs. At any rate, once we've turned the power on, we can head back to the elevator and use the key card to activate it again. We again travel down, and this ride is uneventful until we reach the ground floor. And we have to fight them off. But remember, we found a hole in the floor back at the top of this elevator that led down. And by taking the elevator down, we miss all of the floors between that middle floor in here. So to get all of the loot and lore, instead of taking this elevator, we'll go back up top and take the hole in the floor down. Taking the hole on the floor drops us down into a bathroom at the top of this lower section, and we can snipe on the brotherhood from afar. That's all we can see for now, so we'll begin to explore these rooms carefully. Turning right from the bathrooms on this ruined ledge, we can climb up a rubble ramp to a top ledge where we find a toolcase. But that's it for up here. So dropping back down, we can jump over a broken corner here to arrive on another ruined ledge that we can follow to the other side. Here we find an explosive box. But that's it for this top level. We now need to drop down. Here we begin to loot the brotherhood corpses. We see a big double door leading outside, a hole in the floor leading down to the next level, a ramp in the floor leading down to the next level, a cooler biocouch where we find a gunner corpse. These are the gunners that occupied mass fusion before the brotherhood came in and killed them all, and across from this is an elevator. The elevator shaft to the right is open. We could drop all the way down. The elevator shaft to the left is functional, and it appears that this elevator works. There's a hatch in the top that we can open, but there's nothing for us at the top of this elevator shaft. This smaller elevator is a handy way to skip all of these floors and go all the way down to the ground floor where the main elevator would have let us out at. But of course if we do that, we miss all the loot. Instead of taking the elevator down, we'll explore our way down. In the middle of this room, connecting these two sides is a reception level, but all we find are brotherhood corpses. With this side of this level explored, we can access the double doors that lead to the mass fusion balcony. We hear the sound of raiders below us, but we're well out of harm's way. There is a giant, megalithic metal face on a wall above us, but there's nothing else out here on this balcony. Looks like if we were wearing power armor, this would be a convenient exit from mass fusion. But heading through the double door, we arrive on a balcony on the opposite side of this level. And in office, with a dead gunner inside, there's a mini-nook on a table and a master-locked wall safe. I couldn't pick it, but if we could, inside we find bottle caps and armor. Heading out, we find another hole in the floor leading to the level below and an out-of-order elevator shaft. Across from this is a nukakola machine with one nukakola cherry inside. So lots of ways down, we'll drop down through this large rectangular hole on the northern side of this floor. In this rubble, we find an advanced locked box safe. I couldn't pick it, but if we could, inside we find ammunition thrown explosives, scrap in a stem pack. Directly ahead of us is the door that leads to a balcony overlooking the floors below. But instead of exposing ourselves to more gunfire, we can turn right through a hole on the wall to loot this western office. We find a little bit of scrap and ammunition and some of the containers. This leads to a door in the eastern wall taking us to a balcony, again overlooking the Atrium. There was a ramp below us that we could drop down to or we can go through this eastern door to find Brotherhood. There are more down there, but we'll loot this platform first. We find ammunition and scrap in the various containers on this platform and an overdue book that we can turn into the Boston Public Library lying on a table. Hiding in one of these filing cabinets behind a dumb bell is a bottle of buff out. Peering over this ledge, we find a Brotherhood Soldier. Now from here, we could either drop down into this room or go back out to the balcony and drop down to where this ramp is. We'll do that from here we open a door to the north to find more enemies. From this room we can go through a door to the east into the lower section of the room we explored above. Here we find a bunch of containers filled with scrap and ammunition, a novice locked suitcase on a desk with ammo and armor inside, and we can loot a ton of gunner corpses. This is where the Brotherhood dumped most of the gunners they killed. We find a duffel bag amongst the corpses, but this room is a dead end. Both elevator shafts at the end of this room are blocked. So heading out a western door, we arrive on the other side of the rubble ramp. Buried amongst the rubble is a human skeleton, with a gold plated lighter on the ground next to his hand. Perhaps this guy was taken a smoke break when the building crumbled? And there's a door leading to a rubble ramp that leads us further down. After exploring all of the containers for loot, we find our records terminal here. Mass Fusion Records Administration. We find four entries in the first personal intramale, June 17th, 2077, from these summers to J. Berlin. Jenny, have you given any thought to my proposal? You haven't said anything to me in over a week, and now I'm afraid I've scared you away. I'll wait for you in the cafeteria after work if you want to meet. Well, could this be the start of a marriage proposal gone bad? We don't know his first name, but so far this is the only guy whose name starts with V, giving us the impression that this is the guy, the intern D. Montgomery whom we read about would fetch papers and coffee for. Vincent or Victor. And the next one, July 2nd, 2077, again from summers to Berlin. It's been weeks now. And you keep avoiding me. Why? What have I done wrong? Where are you tormenting me like this? You keep saying you have plenty of time to decide, but I feel like our time is running out. Please Jenny, I need an answer. Well, he was right. Their time was running out, and up for the reasons he thought. And the next one, August 22nd, 2077, again from summers to Berlin. Jenny, I'm sick and tired of all this waiting. I have plenty of others lining up to take your place, you know? The fact that you keep leading me on only makes me think you're beginning to enjoy watching me get upset. Well, guess what? If you don't let me know soon, I'm moving on to someone else. Yikes. That's a cry of desperation, have ever I've heard one? Sure, he's got lots of others lined up. I buy that. And in the last one, September 14th, 2077, again from summers to Berlin. I've been such a fool, Jenny. An impatient, impolite fool. I've been bothering you for months about my proposal when I should have simply waited for your answer. I've made all sorts of false accusations and assumptions. For that, I'm sorry. Take as long as you want, Jenny. Maybe after the holidays, you can give me your answer. For now, let's just remain friends and not let anything else come between us. Oh, well I suppose Jenny was a little comforted to get that response. But I don't very much that they could remain friends after this conversation. Now we could go down to the next floor using the rubble ramp in this room, but there's still some that we missed on this floor. So turning around, we'll retrace our steps through the large room where we find another brotherhood soldier. A legendary one. With him dead, we can explore through a break in the wall to the northwest. This leads back to the rubble ramp we used to get down here, but it also joins to a room with a hole in the floor leading below. Before dropping down, we still need to explore the opposite side of the room above us. When we came down the rubble ramp, we got cut up in combat and so we didn't explore that side. Heading up the rubble ramp we can turn left to find the balcony on the other side of the large room we explored earlier. Here we can loot a gunner and we see that this leads to the rubble ramp that we could have used to climb down from the elevators above. Remember and said we came down that large rectangular hole in the floor? Well now we know where this connects. This small office has a little bit of ammunition that's about it. We can open a door in the eastern wall to again arrive at the rubble ramp leading down. And that's this entire floor explored. So to continue, we'll go back to the room with the terminal that we last read and take the rubble ramp down. Here we can loot the dead and move through a hole in the wall to the west. This leads to the men's bathroom. There's a skeleton on the floor in a stall, but it's otherwise empty. To leave the bathroom we open a door to the north, which brings us to the balcony. Overlooking the main atrium. Moving forward we find a catwalk leading to the other side and a staircase leading down to the ground floor. We see a couple of Brotherhood soldiers and my inventory was getting full. Let's get rid of some missiles. We're required. Heads up, they were dark. What's the area? Contact lost. Nice. Leave no survivors. There. We're feeling much lighter. With these Brotherhood dead, we can cross the catwalk. We see that the gunners had repaired it with some scrap allowing us to traverse to the other side. On the other side we find that the door to the women's restroom is broken. There's an office across from us with an ammo box hiding behind a table next to another dead gunner. There is a staircase down leading out of this room. And next to it, a novice locked door leading to a small office with a tool case inside. We're heading downstairs. We need to finish exploring this level. Heading back onto the balcony. We see that the staircase leading down is broken. We could jump across that. But instead we'll take the stairs down. On this mezzanine level we find one small office with a little bit of scrap. So heading back out to the balcony that we could have leapt down to, we find a hole on the floor leading all the way down or a staircase leading to another mezzanine level. From this platform, peering over we see three elevator shafts on the ground floor. I wonder how many of these still work. And then taking the stairs all the way down to the ground, we arrive at reception. Lots of dead gunners and brotherhood soldiers here. We can loot all the dead to walk away with quite a hefty haul. Behind the reception desk is the reception terminal. Company Entremail April 2nd, 2077. The mass fusion employee store is now open. Part of your very own mass fusion branded hats, shirts, shorts, swimsuits, umbrellas, neckties, cufflinks, socks, tumblers, shoplasses, coffee, mugs, and more. Please see Eric Rowanoke in HR for details. I mean yeah, sounds like something mass fusion would do. And something Bethesda would do. And heck it's something I do. And the next one August 19th, 2077. Attention all employees. Due to the unfortunate quote, sit in protest, unquote, in the man lobby by members of the public, new security measures are being implemented immediately. Please be sure to carry your ID card on you at all times and stay within your designated areas. Do not exit the building using any door other than those designated as standard exits. Do not provide anyone with your login passwords or use of your terminal. Any deviation from these restrictions will result in immediate termination of your position at mass fusion. So why was the public protesting mass fusion? Were they just against nuclear power? Or had mass fusion had some… accidents? This question is answered in my video on the mass fusion containment shed that you can watch here. In the next one, company intramale August 19th, 2077. And we see that this is the same holiday party invitation that we read about earlier. So with this terminal explored, we can back out to finish exploring reception. Over to the elevator shafts. We see that the first one is empty, but we see the car waiting at the top. Now this shaft does work. This is handy if, for example, we didn't get the freefall legs on our first playthrough and we had to come back without the ability to teleport to the top of the mass fusion building and we didn't want to climb all those stairs. The next shaft is empty and the next one… oh, it's not a shaft at all. It's a staircase leading down. Heading downstairs, we find an open door to the right and a novice locked door to the left. Unlocking this door, we arrive in a small room with a kimbox inside and some minor scrap. So turning around and crossing this hall, we find a large… Peamance office, it looks like. This is an advanced locked wall safe. On the wall right next to the door, I couldn't pick it, but if I could, inside, we find a lot of ammunition and a little bit of scrap. There is scrap by the terminals, a gunner corpse on a sleeping bag by the terminals, and a duffle bag by the filing cabinets. That's it for this room. So back to the staircase, we return to the atrium and we see that we've explored most of it. There's a beautiful sculpture in the middle of this room and we see the elevator that we would have arrived at had we taken the main elevator all the way down to the ground floor at the front of the building between the two doors leading outside. Next to one of these doors is yet another terminal. This is the customer service terminal. Inside we find five options and the first pay my bill, we are sorry, but our billing services are currently offline. Please see a mass fusion customer service representative for assistance. In the next one, new accounts to open a new account and begin enjoying the benefits of your nuclear tomorrow, please see one of our mass fusion customer service representatives today. In the next one, trouble shooting. We find three more options and the first, my street has no power. If your entire street is experiencing a loss of power, then one of our substations or distribution centers is likely having a minor issue. Rest assured, we will work diligently to restore power to your neighborhood as soon as possible. In the next one, my home has no power. If your home is experiencing a loss of power and your account isn't in a rear, then please follow these steps. One, locate your fusion distribution box. Two, open the ledge shielded panel. Uh oh. Not liking where this is going. Three, flip the master reset lever up, then down. Four, if your home's power isn't restored, please contact a service affiliate. But mass fusion is not responsible for any health-related issues caused by attempting to service our fusion equipment. How about they're glad they put that in there, considering they asked us to open a ledge shielded panel and order exactly why it's ledge shielded. And in the last one, I'm feeling sick. Many individuals assume that the fusion distribution box in their home may present a danger to its occupants. While the device gives off a trace amount of radiation, we can assure you that it's completely safe. If you're experiencing the following symptoms, we give you our word that they are in no way related to our clean power technology. Naja, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, fever, dizziness, and disorientation, weakness, fatigue, hair loss, poor wound healing, low blood pressure, skin flaking, or burns. Sure. Those are all perfectly normal symptoms of, well, not radiation poisoning. Obviously, good. Backing out of troubleshooting, we can read company history. In the spring of 2043, Karl Oslo dared to dream of limitless power being supplied to countless homes from a single power plant. After spending six years cutting his teeth as an electrical engineer with Poseidon energy, Mr. Oslo decided he'd had enough with traditional methods of energy distribution and founded Mass Fusion to begin realizing his vision. After only a decade of research, Mass Fusion's Clean Power Initiative transitioned from dream to reality and the switches were thrown. The people of Boston embraced this new technology, and by 2070, Mass Fusion became the primary power provider for all of Massachusetts. Now, as we look to the future, Mass Fusion hopes to bring 10 more power plants online in the next several decades. To open into account and begin enjoying the benefits of your nuclear tomorrow, please see one of our Mass Fusion customer service representatives today. Brand new energy technology, same old corporate pre-war America, and in the last one, service status. Our next available appointment is in 99999999910 Days. If you'd like to submit a service request, please see one of our Mass Fusion customer service representatives. Backing out of the terminal, we can head outside to see that we arrive in the financial district, and if we hadn't already, we discover the Mass Fusion building. We're right next to Diamond City. We've probably walked past this place multiple times. So the gunners outside are all dead thanks to the brotherhood. We can loot out here. There are ammo canisters and ammunition lying about. But we are getting sidetracked. We still haven't found the Burrilly imaginator, and remember the terminal said that it was in the sub-level. So heading back inside, what we're looking for is either another elevator or a staircase that leads us further down. And we find it when we climb the staircase on the northeastern side to find a door across from reception. We find a door to the right leading to an elevator that requires a key card. But turning around, we see a sandbag barricade next to a room with a bunch of scrap, a dead gunner, a couple of containers, and a protectron inside. Two protectrons, still in their pods, connected to a nearby terminal with red wires. Well, of only we had none about this earlier. The terminal is locked with a novice lock. We can easily hack this. But inside we find two entries. The first is the intramel we read about the sit-in protest. The second is the intramel that says that they fired Dr. Chandritch, again, which we've already read, and then we find the option to turn on or off connected turrets and turn on or off the nearby protectrons. We can go ahead and activate these, and they head out into the atrium to just mill about. But to continue, we need to head back to the elevator and swipe the ID card to take the elevator down to the sub-level. As the door opens, we arrive in a room lit by a cool light. There's a door to the right and a door to the left. There's the reactor. Not a bad piece of work for its time. The operative words being for its time. I understand how X6 can be so arrogant here. We're here as the institute stealing pre-war tech, because as the institute, we don't have the technology that they do. We're here to find pre-war tech, because the institute can't make it. For its time, the institute can't replicate this technology right now. For its time, it's better than anything in our time. But X688, and I think the institute, as a whole, is a bit too arrogant to admit that. Now the door to the right is a staircase leading down, so we'll examine the door to the left first, and this leads to a small office. After we find a novice long terminal, the prototype lab terminal. After hacking it, we find four options and protectron control. In the first one, Research Entremale, July 30th, 2077, two reactor team from N Chandrich Research Lead. Today we embark on a new frontier. Once the switch on the reactor is thrown and the burrilly imaginator cold starts to fusion reaction, the reality of clean power nuclear energy will be upon us all. As the Research Lead on the project, I'd like to thank you all for contributing to the cause. Good luck, and Godspeed. In the next one, August 1st, 2077, two D. Wabash, X Vincent, C. Collins, from B. Thorpe, prototype engineering. And here we appear to find part of a text-based role-playing game being undertaken by employees of mass fusion who work on the reactor. But we're stumbling upon this story in the middle of it. By reading this terminal entry, we don't really understand what's going on in the role-playing game. So instead of reading this now, we'll collect all of the parts to this text-based role-playing game and piece them together when done. The next is Protectron Control, and we can activate a nearby Protectron. He walks off to do his thing. The staircase next to this room leads to a dead end, so we did head back to the room we came from across the hall and head down the stairs and around a corner into another room with a terminal. We see two doors to the right, a door to the left, and a terminal on a desk. Next to the terminal is an overdue book. We can take this to the Boston Public Library. This is the attendance terminal, and it's locked with an advanced lock. I couldn't hack it, but if we could, inside, we find four entries and a bunch of other stuff. In the first Research Entra mail, July 30th, 2077, the first one is the email from Chandritch, congratulating the team for getting the Barrelium Agitator working. But the next three continue the story of the role-playing game, so we'll save these to piece together later. After that, we find a Sultron Control, Territ Control, and Security Door Control. Now looks like there are some robots nearby, but they appear to be dormant for now. Looks like we could deactivate them all from this terminal. But remember, this was a master lock, and I couldn't hack it in my game. So even though we could disable any security that may appear later, I'm going to go ahead and leave these alone. Let's just hope I don't pay for it later. Behind this door is a locker room. We find some minor clothing items and a few pieces of scrap. It has Matt Sout in one of the lockers, pretty important item, and a bathroom back here where the first aid box in one of the stalls. That's it for the bathrooms and the locker room. So back out, we see that the doors in front of us are locked, presumably controlled by the terminal which is hacked, which means that whatever robots we could control from that terminal likely come out of these doors. So turning left, we enter the main reactor room. There are two consoles to the right or left, but nothing in any of the boxes. Down some stairs we turn left to take some stairs up to another platform. Here we find the reactor security control terminal locked with a master lock. I couldn't hack it, but if we could inside, we find security system status enabled. There is one entry here and two other items. In the email, September 5th, 2077, we find the email saying that Dr. Chandritch was fired, which we already read. Backing out, we find security systems control. Looks like this is another point in the reactor security system that we either need to disable now from this terminal or we'll likely have to fight through later. And then we find a security door control. This likely leads to whatever we can turn on or off from the security system control. But again, as I couldn't hack this in my game, I'll leave it as it is. Continuing to explore this platform, we find an end of Dungeon SteamerTronk with a ton of ammunition, a cryo-granade and a few weapons inside. Then, back down to this mezzanine level we can cross the platform. To explore this opposite side, we find another door. Presumably there is a security robot on the other side of that door. Samamo on a table, and that's about it. So back to the platform in the middle of the room, we can take the staircase down to join Ali. Dr. Philmore. Looks pretty dangerous in there. You have any sort of radiation protection on you? Radiation protection? Like what? Come on. Don't worry about me. I'm all set. Okay. Good. Can I just close my eyes and run fast? Joking in the face of mortal danger? Always a good sign. Here. I got a couple of doses of rad-ex, but I seriously doubt it'll do the job. See? This is why I wore the suit. Look, they worked on the reactor here. They must have had some kind of protection. Poke around and I'm sure you'll find something. As she was right, we found that hazmat suit in the lockers. Before we move on into the reactor, we find a terminal nearby called reactor control. Reactor status. The main reactor is currently online. Power capacity. 22105 megawatts. Efficiency rating. 99.997%. Radiation level. Critical. 153 rads a second. Warning. Critical levels of radiation have been detected in the reactor chamber. Please take appropriate safety precautions. We find four entries. The first is Dr. Chandrich's email to everybody congratulating them, but the second continues with that role-playing game that we've seen on so many other terminals. But even this is not yet the full story of the role-playing game, so we'll save it for now and piece the whole story together later. Backing out of this terminal, we can move under the stairs to find yet another room. It looks like a Protectron room, but the charging dock is empty and we find no terminal. Behind the other staircases is another door leading to a Protectron room that's functional. We find a masterlocked box safe on the ground, some radix on top of it with a hazmat suit on top of it. After looting a Nuka Cola, we can read the analyst's terminal, locked with a novice lock. The last three entries continue with the role-playing game. This terminal gives us the final pieces in the story, so at last we can piece the whole thing together. The game starts at D. Wabash's terminal inside the reactor. He was in charge of facilities. He's the dungeon master. After dispatching the goblins, you enter a large chamber. The room is moist, dark, and reeks of oful. Shadowfiend, you feel as though a thousand eyes are staring at you from the darkness, but your dark vision reveals nothing. Gandar, you notice that your sword is giving off a faint shimmer. To mash your spirit guardian whispers words of warning to you that something otherworldly is here. The next player is X Vincent, the reactor attendant. He plays a stealthy assassin type character named Shadowfiend. Shadowfiend looks for a safe corner and draws both of his snake-bike daggers. He crouches and says, to mash, there's something amiss here. The next player is B Thorpe. From prototype engineering, he plays to mash, a shaman-like character. To mash reaches into his pouch and sprinkles his commuting dust in a circle around himself. He closes his eyes and calls upon the knowledge of Dili Gassa. Dili Gassa, sage of the ages, show me what my eyes can't see. The final player is C Collins from reactor control. He plays Gandar, a paladin, or something like it. Gandar draws his demon-bane blade from its scabbard and waits for to mash his incantation to take effect. He carefully watches the room for any signs of movement. Coming back to the dungeon master, to mash, something is preventing your summoning ritual from completing. All you feel is the cold touch of something dark and primeval creeping up your spine. You decide that rather than risk angering it further, you should cease casting. Shadowfiend, you think you see something slithering across the ceiling above Gandar. To mash stops casting and switches to his staff of brilliant sunlight. He incants the words and raises the staff high over his head to illuminate the room. He proudly yells aloud, dark foe, prepare to be revealed. Shadowfiend instantly hurls his daggers at the slithering form and yells out, Gandar, above you my friend. I got a 16 for the first dagger and a 7 for the second. Gandar heats Shadowfiend's warning and attempts to sidestep the attack he's expecting. At the same time, he takes a mighty swing with his blade. Looks like I got an 18. Not bad. Shadowfiend, your daggers, harmlessly strike the cold stone of the ceiling as they seemingly pass through the shadowy serpent-like form. To mash, your staff would normally fill the chamber with pure sunlight, but something is preventing the magic from reaching its full potential. All you can manage is enough light to barely illuminate the room. Gandar, your sword, cleaves air as your blade passes through the enemy, unharmed. To mash, drops the staff, reaches into his left front pocket and pulls out a pinch of sulfur powder. He incants the flame blaze spell and blows into the pile of powder towards the beast. If it works, the thing has to make a negative 5 fire check. Shadowfiend removes his hand crossbow from its leather holster, slots in a clip of bolts plus 2 and takes careful aim at the creature. Using his power of true sight, he attempts to aim at the creature's weak point and fires. Got a 3, a 19, and a 12. Damn, lousy rolls. Gandar backs off from the creature, realizing that the hell spawn is made of pure magic and his weapons would be useless. My friends, magic is the only thing that can stop this creature of darkness. He kneels down and says a quick prayer to Bashlar, God of Steel. Ok, well, these nuclear engineers were playing a game of Dungeons and Dragons, or whatever the equivalent is in this universe, from their work terminals, at a nuclear power plant. This is totally not terrifying. At least these guys were having fun. They could have had fun outside of work hours, but at least they were living life. From here we've got safe control and Protectoron control. We can unlock the safe and turn on the Protectoron if we want. This means that there are only two security robots that we can control without investing in the hacker perk. Two Protectoron stations are only novice locked. So if we do get attacked by security robots later, and if we can't simply disable security because we can't access the terminal, we only have two Protectorons that we can reprogram to aid us. Inside the safe we find ammunition and a pipe pistol. I guess they weren't so good at mitigating radiation back in those days. Levels are almost off the charts. A monitor thinks from here. With that we've fully explored this room. And with the radiation suit on, we can move to the south. Here we find a door flanked by danger signs that lead us to a decontamination arch. This leads to the reactor. On the other side of that glass, when ready we can head inside and push the decontamination button. Through the doors we arrive on a catwalk, overlooking a pool of radioactive waste. We begin to take on rads but thankfully they are minimal since we're wearing a radiation suit. The thing we're looking for, the agitator. It should be an port at the top of the reactor. Right, a port at the top of the reactor. From this catwalk we see a ramp going up and a ramp going down. Taking the ramp down, we can actually reach the radioactive waste at the bottom. Or could that be radioactive water? It's water. And we can swim in it. The suit protects us so we can swim around freely. We don't find anything down here. We could also try to drink it. Instant death. Yeah, probably could have guessed that one. So instead of drinking it, we'll head back up to the catwalk and take the ramp all the way to the top of the reactor. The catwalk goes all the way around the reactor. At the back we find a drawer in this console filled with buff out. Instead of rad X, okay, well, I'll take it. And at the front of the reactor, we find a catwalk leading to the agitator receptacle. We could activate the receptacle or push this big red button labeled the interlock release. If we try to activate the agitator receptacle, nothing happens. If we get too close to it. We die. So instead, we've got to push the big red button and initiate the interlock release. The agitator receptacle spins open. And now we can activate it to remove the burrilla agitator. Normally I wouldn't advise taking your hands into strange fusion reactors, but I suppose this is the exception. We've done it. And now I guess this reactor will stop working. It's been working for over 200 years. And we read from the terminal entries that it provided power to all of Boston and most of Massachusetts. So I wonder what the topside ramifications are for turning this reactor off. The institute is essentially stealing power from the entire Commonwealth. Uh-oh. With that two turrets, appear in the ceiling above us and we've got to take them down. The Protectron's turn hostile. The one we released now turns against us. But thankfully, Ali and X6 quickly put it down. If we wanted to use these Protectrons in any future fight, I suppose it would be best to leave them in their charging docks for now, release them later and then hack them to make them our allies. Retracing our steps, we can go back to the decontamination arches. Please wait. Do not be alarmed. More and more there will be restored. Shorten the decontamination complete. Something's out there. Once decontaminated, the door opens. Moving into the next room, we are attacked by more turrets. And a Sentry bot comes to play. If only I had invested more on the hacker perk, I could have avoided this fight completely. But as it was, I had to be creative. I had to chase this. This Sentry bot was too big to fit into the room with the decontamination arches. And he can't shoot us on the other side of this glass. I took the opportunity to leap into the doorway, shoot off a rocket, leap back to safety while reloading to whittle this Sentry bot down. But we're not done. After the Sentry bot is destroyed, a Sultron's appear. And I had to employ the same strategy. The problem is that the Assaultron is small enough to get through this door. So, I had to come inside and activate the decontamination arches. That seals the door. The Assaultron stand on the other side of the glass. Furious, but powerless. Then we wait for them to wander off a bit. And when they do, coming back, we can push the button again. The door opens. And we can sneak out. Then it's just a matter of getting sneak criticals, sneaking up behind the Assaultrons and maximizing our damage. The decontamination complete. The glass is castile, calculating the kill point. And finally, we need to destroy machine gun turrets in the next room. And finally, destroy all of the robots. And Ali is not having a good time. Dr. Philmore. Well, isn't this fun? We can loot the robot wreckages. Inside the room where the Sentry bot was hiding, we find a terminal on a desk next to an explosive box and a tool case. This is the facility's terminal. From here we find the security system control. This is a boon for players who might not have invested very high into the hacker perk, but did invest high into stealth. For after the master door opens and the sentry body emerges, one could stealth into this room, quietly, access the terminal and disable security without having to hack the more difficult terminals outside. Directly above it we find personal intramale, July 15th, 2077. Two D-Drag reactor facilities from Jane Isles. I don't know what to do, Debbie. I had Jenny from mainframe control up on three in here and she was crying on my shoulder about that guy Victor and records. He keeps asking her to adopt his stupid puppy and won't leave her alone about it. What do you think I should tell her? Maybe I should talk to Victor and adopt the darn thing myself? Let me know. Poppy! We thought that Emilexchange was about Victor harassing Jenny about his marriage proposal, but the entire time he was trying to get her to answer him about his proposal that she adopt his dog. That's an interesting proposal, but doesn't make him any better. If someone doesn't give you an answer when you ask something of them, they've given you an answer and the answer is no, but this guy didn't have the wherewithal to figure it out. After looting all of the robots and collecting the burrilly imaginator, we retrace our steps back to the elevator and take it to the main level of mass fusion. These guys just don't know when they're beaten, do they? They're dedicated to their duty. As a coarser, I can't respect that. I'll help the synth by some time. Make sure you get back to the institute with the agitator. Oh what? The brotherhooder back and Ali stays here! All that talk about making sure the agitator stayed in her hands was for nothing. No matter which option we choose to bring her with us or leave her behind, we still walk away with the agitator in hand. The door opens up and the brotherhood attacks. But moving across the way, we see that the two protect runs that we activated and released before we went down the elevator are back in this room and they're deactivated. We can use the terminal to activate them again and wait for them to walk outside and wreak havoc on the brotherhood. But they get stuck. Of course they do, so we gotta open the door and deal with the brotherhood ourselves. Now we could skip this. Ali and a bunch of synth spawn in to fight the fight for us. We could simply race with the door and high-tail it out of here. But we want loot. We want experience and we've got some ammunition. It's time to spend it. With that we defeat the brotherhood onslaught. Ali sticks around here with the synths and all we gotta do is head outside and make it back to the institute. Back at the institute we find Ali waiting for us inside advanced systems. Dr. Philmore. I think that was enough excitement for a while. Ever. Thank you, really. Couldn't have managed it without you. I'll make sure the agitator gets where it needs to go. I understand father is anxious to get you involved in something else. You better not keep him waiting. After that she takes the Barrelia Magitator from us and we complete the quest mass fusion. But we begin the quest pinned. Speak with father. Looks like it'll take some time for the institute to use the Barrelia Magitator to get their own reactor working. In the meantime, we've got to do another task for Sean. I publish new episodes in this series each and every week on this channel so if you don't want to miss that episode be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already but you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications consider following me on Twitter and Oxford. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in another way consider leaving a super thanks on this video. Your super thanks directly contribute to the production of this series. You can become a supporter on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comment sections of my videos and they gain access to oxomojis that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with the next episode in the full story of Fallout 4.