After finally settling things in New Reno, we hopped in the car and took a trip southeast to NCR. After everything that went on between Weston and the Bishop family, we need to know exactly what the NCR's intentions are here in the wasteland. We arrive at the NCR Bazaar. After parking in a makeshift car port, we find a guy walking around saying, need a car watched? No problem, I can do that. That's fine transport, man, truly fine. Oh, man, am I the one for you? Watch your car, keep it safe from the bed bugs. Five bucks, no problem. Five bucks and doofus is on the job. Never sleep, 24 hour. Always there, man. What place is this we can ask? And he says, this is the NCR. The high, mighty, righteous, absolutely, and always correct, new California Republic. They are the ones who will lead people like us out of the wasteland and into the new and perfect future. Can you dig it? Uh, let's get this business finished, we can say. And he says, so man, you want my protection? Deal, we can say. Five dollars, you watch the car. Doofus will perform, man. Not even a fly is going to land his crap on your auto-mobile. Good, shut up, we can say. And with that, doofus watches our car. This doesn't actually do anything. If we don't pay him the five dollars to watch the car, nothing happens. So it's just a waste of five bucks, but it's a fun conversation. Taking a glance at the area, we see a few shops to the north. A big, caged-off area with prisoners to the west. That's a strange thing to see after the NCR reputation. And a few other shops to the west. We'll start by checking out these small shops to the north. The first is a gun shop in a tent. There are two guards outside. Yeah, yeah, move along, they say. After poking the other one, he says, hey, I'm not into that. Just make sure you keep a good distance from me. Oh, guess we want Pokemon again. Moving inside the tent, we find a dwarf. Hey, welcome to Buster's fine-impoorium of Armament. I'm Buster, and there ain't nobody else. Got some fine goods here and on my shelves. Check it out. I'm ready to deal. What you got, we can ask. And inspecting his inventory is got a little less than 500 bucks, a small assortment of ammunition, and some load to mid-game weapons. Kind of a disappointing shop inventory. Anything else, he says? Maybe you can fix me up something special, we can ask. And he says, maybe. Just might have a Triavilled Times 10 Magnification Rifle Scope. Would they just find on a hunting rival? If somebody was interested, let it go cheap, 500 bucks. Tempting offer, but since we're already friends with Aldrinan and the basement of New Reno Arms, who can do all weapon upgrades for free, it's not really compelling. No thanks, we can say. Hey, I've got some questions. That's an ice stranger, says the dwarf, but I ain't no charity. Oh, I see how this game is planned. In order to get this guy to talk, we've got to buy something from his shop. After doing a bit of barter and he's willing to talk, sure stranger, what do you want to know? Tell me about NCR, we can ask. New California Republic, says the dwarf. That's what it is. President Tandy and the bunch say they're trying to rebuild the old days. I figure they're just trying to grab whatever they can. Hell, I got no complaint with him. The old days is all before my time. They're kind of a prissy bunch, though. Don't like slaves gambling, what not. That's why I said about here. Don't like the rules. Never have. I see we can say after buying something again to have a answer our next question, we can say, what can you tell me about Frank Weston? Funny you go asking that after what happened to Frank Weston, he says, not that I'd know, but there's a fellow, Merck, down at the raw hide, who might be able to help you. This question is in place only if we're on John Bishop's quest to assassinate Frank Weston, a task which I fully explored in my videos on the Bishop family. After buying something yet again to get him to answer a third and final question, we can ask, do you have a gack? That one of them pre-war imports? Let me guess, 14 millimeter ammo? Nope, ain't got one. Okay, goodbye we can say. So a bit of a disappointing weapons merchant. Next to him is son of Bob Zigg Wona-Bits. Tastes like chicken. Hungry stranger? I got the best lizard around. Ask anybody. What can you tell me about the town we can ask? Look, I got a rule he says. I don't say nothing about nobody. It's a good rule. Because if I keep my mouth shut, I keep out of trouble. Kapish? Do you have a gack? We can ask. A gack? Well, that's old history, so what the hell? You mean the old Garden of Eden creation kit? We had one, I mean our grandparents had one. Use it when they came out of Vault 15. Got this place started, they say. It's all used up now. Well, I'm still hungry. I'll take one of your iguana bits we can say. And examining his inventory, he's got a lot of iguana. 83 pieces of iguana stick. 25 pieces of iguana bits. 99 caps to barter with. Son of Bob Zigg Wona-Stand is a nostalgia throwback to Bob Zigg Wona-Bits stand. Which we first discovered in the hub during the events of Fallout 1. And was there we discovered the true and horrifying ingredient inside Bob Zigg Wona-Bits, which I covered in a video that you can watch here. Moving west, we pass our car guard muttering to himself. And strangely, he's misspelling words vocally. Cars, cars, cars, cars, cars, cars, with gay, triple gay cars, cars, cats. Yeah, I'm fine. Yeah, I'm fine. Yeah. Alright, so this guy's crazy. Passing the big gated-off area for now, we see a small Adobe shack to the self. This is just a bathroom, and it's empty. It connects to a larger Adobe shack to the west. Inside, we find a woman in combat armor. Just keep your nose clean and we'll get along just fine stranger, she says. By keeping our nose clean, that means we can't loot any of these lockers. If we do, she attacks. But if we manage to kill her or sneak inside, the first locker has a 10 millimeter SMG with ammunition. The second locker has a desert eagle with ammunition. The third locker has some frag grenades. And the bookshelf has a Geiger counter, a big book of science, and it aims electronics. But assuming we don't want to start off our adventure in an S.I.R. with murder, we can bypass this lady who has nothing else to say to us and head out the front door. Just outside this shack is a sandwich board. Welcome to the new California Republic. Before entering our fair city, please take a moment to familiarize yourself with the following rules and regulations. No weapons may be openly carried inside the city limits. You better put your weapons away, we mean it. Persons found under the influence of alcohol or chems will be arrested. Good, there won't be any drunks or junkies pestering you for fixed money. Slavery, gambling, and prostitution are not permitted within the city limits. It looks like they're trying to create a respectable decent community for people to live in. Ignorance of the law is no excuse. A dumbass will get his butt kicked just as fast as a smartass. Equality before the law is a good thing. All right, is the chosen one commenting on each of these or is this actually on the sandwich board? I'm not sure how this is working. If you can't live by these laws, then get the hell out. It's a little blunt, but it does get the point across. When we've read enough of this, we can move on. Now to avoid being attacked on sight, we'll have to disarm. But even after having done so, if we try to move south past this gate, the guard stop us. Hey you, put your weapons away. NCR don't welcome that kind of trouble. This at first confused me because my weapons were put away. But he repeats himself, stranger, NCR's got laws, and one of them's no weapons. Put it away, and there'll be no trouble. And I checked my inventory again, and there were no weapons. As I move forward, the attacks. I discovered later that I not only have to remove my weapons, but also the weapons my companions are carrying. We have to do this through dialogue. We have to ask each of them to put away their weapons while in town. This is a problem with SkyNet because we don't find an option to ask him to remove his weapons. So if SkyNet is in our party in NCR, eventually the guards will all turn hostile. So for this video, I left him back at New Reno. West of the bulletin board is the raw hide saloon. Stepping inside, we see a number of locals muttering to themselves, drinking and talking. Hell, nothing exciting ever happens in this town. Hi, what's your sign? Go away, your bother and me. There's a room to the west in the saloon, but it's empty. Talking to the man at the counter, he says, if you're looking for work stranger, go down to the stockmen's. And next to him is a super mutant. Lenny don't talk to nobody. Makes muties his slaves, grubble. Okay, friendly guy. Talking to the bartender. Mirrors the name. What do you have, stranger? Information we can say. You're gonna buy a drink, she says, ten bucks. All right, so to get this lighted to talk, we gotta buy booze. Got a little time for some questions now? Sure, she says, I got time. That's what bartenders are supposed to do. Just don't get no ideas. Tell me about this town we can ask. Name's NCR. Used to be shady sands. But after the master's defeat, Eradish and the others founded the Republic. Now NCR sits right on the border. Everything south of here is Republic ruled. This town used to be shady sands. The chosen one should remember the name Shady Sands from the tales by the Vault Weller. We visited Shady Sands during the events of Fallout 1. There we met Eradish and his daughter, Tandy. Good to see that our ancestors' hard work protecting the town has paid off. Word of advice, she continues. Keep your nose clean in town. Courts aren't too friendly to our types. If you know what I mean, citizens got more rights than you. Uh oh. I'm getting vault city vibes now. Well have you ever heard of Vault 13 we can ask? Yeah, another one of those Wankos looking for lost treasure? She says. Not to go see Salt Beef Bob over at Weston's Ranch. He's always talking about treasure. You may have to wet his whistle though. So Salt Beef Bob knows something about Vault 13. We'll have to track him down. Hey I'm looking for a thing called a geck. Know anything about it? You tell me how to mix it she says. And I'll pour it for you. It's not a drink. We can say it's a garden of Eden Creation Kit. Garden of Eden Creation Kit. Sounds technical she says. You might try looking up Dorothy, the city engineer. Finally we can say, I'm looking for work. You need to talk to Merck, but he's not here. Come back at night. That's more his time she says. If we wait until evening after a while, a man strolls through the door. He walks through the saloon and heads to the empty room to the left. I'm Merck. What do you want he says? I'm looking for some information. We can say, knowledge cost you. Am I clear? Here's 50 bucks we can say. Well I am a learned man. What's your question says Merck? I'm looking for Vault 13. We can ask. Just so happens. I've got a map to Vault 13. It's only a thousand bucks. You interested? Sure. I'll take it we can say. With that Merck gives us the Vault 13 HoloDisc. After downloading its information to our Pip Boy, we learned that this HoloDisc gives us the location of Vault 13. And the location has now been marked on our map. That's it. We've got it. But we want to be thorough. NCR is the best place to go to discover the location of Vault 13. Here there are a number of ways to discover its location. Buying this holotape from Merck is just one of them. While here we'll go over each and every one. To ask him another question, costs us another 50 bucks. Ever heard of a Gek we can ask? Is that some kind of cam out of New Reno? I've never heard of it he says. 50 bucks grants us another question. What can you tell me about some guy named Weston? We can ask. The rancher, huh? Come in here one time. About crooked. Town dog had to rush over with some pills. Seems Weston's got a heart condition. Ruined business for the rest of the night. This information is again related to our quest to assassinate Weston. Next we can say, Merck, I'm looking for work. Are you that stupid? He says you think I'm just going to hire anybody? You work for me. You got to prove you're good for something. How about I just shoot Lenny there? We can say he deserves it. I don't think Lenny would like that says Merck. Probably we can say, but I wasn't asking him. True he says. Been too dull around here. Time for a little one on one in the basement. Come on Lenny. I want to watch you kill this guy. And with that we appear in the basement of the Rohyd Saloon. And we begin a boxing match with Lenny. This is a fight to the death. And it's really unfair. All our weapons are stripped from our inventory. Even our fist weapons, including box and gloves and power fists. But Lenny uses a power fist. Now we can use Stimpaks throughout the fight. But so can Lenny. In fact, he repeatedly uses Stimpaks and Super Stimpaks. Throw out the fight to completely restore his health. Even with completely maxed out unarmed damage, strength, and endurance, this fight is very difficult. If we lose the match with Lenny, we die. But if we win the match, we earn Merck's respect. And he can then offer us a job. But we can also get to this point without having to fight Lenny at all. Reloading a save instead of offering to fight Lenny, we can say, listen, I'm Oxhorn, and I'm a badass mofo. Just ask anybody. But he just says, as far as I'm concerned, here you're just a pile of dung. Or we can say, I have to prove myself. How? Like I've got problems that need solvent, says Merck. Such as we can say, such as there's a damn Habologist in town who has irritated me. Once this itch is scratched, come back and talk to me. Consider it done. I got just the back scratcher for him. But what's an Habologist? And where do I find him? A Habologist, says Merck, is a nutcase religious fanatic. It can be found at the church in town. So it looks like before we can do any real work for this guy, we've got to prove ourselves by killing this Habologist. But first we got to find him. Moving north on of the Raheid saloon, we can explore this fenced-off area with all these people and cages. The sign outside the building says that this is Vortis's holding center. Talk to Mr. Vortis, not me, says the guard. Heading inside, none of the men here on Mr. Vortis. But after a while, Mr. Vortis walks in from a nearby room. After he heads behind the counter, we can talk to him. So what do you want, says Mr. Vortis? What's this place do we can ask? This place is my place, he says. And I, Vortis, run an honest and legitimate business no matter what anybody in NCR tells you. Since NCR doesn't allow slaves inside the gates, I mind them for folks who've got business inside. So it's a holding pen where travelers can place their slaves while exploring NCR. It's a wonder that NCR even allows this. He have got some other questions we can say. And he says, Screw you, boys, escort this annoying crud out of my sight. And with that, we get to pause it and right outside the building. But we can go back in. You're starting to annoy me, he says, Hey, I'm just looking for work we can say. And he says work? Well, there might be something you ever heard of the new California Rangers, he says. No, we can honestly say. Let me tell you then, these Rangers have got it in their heads to wipe out slavery and slavers by force. They've been creating a lot of trouble for a hard working folks. And we can say, they work in secret, especially up north. And, cheese, I got to spell this out for you. They raid slavers, drive off their stock and smuggle them down south to NCR lands where slavery is illegal. So you interested? And, there is no end. You want the job or not? We can say, and as many times as we want here. But he just gives us the same response. Instead we'll say, So, what do you want me to do? Well, then he says, you should know some folks to see them as a potential problem. It would be extremely useful if we had a map of their safe houses through the north. New Reno, Klamath, wherever. I'll be willing to pay, oh, say, 500 bucks for something like that. You think you could get that for me? If we say I don't think so, he kicks us out and we can never get this quest again from him. So instead we can say, sure. Fine, he says, when you get me the map, I'll be here. Where am I going to find a map we can say? How the hell should I know? He says, if I knew, I'd have it, wouldn't I? Look, they're supposed to be a cell in town. Find them and see what you can do. So we need to find a cell of new California Rangers inside NCR. If we tried to go south towards the slave pens, we turn everybody hostile. The same is true if we try to go up into Bortes' bedroom. So for now, we'll just move on. The border of this map is blocked up with junk, rubbish, old cars, and so forth. We can't reach the Nukakola machine here, but moving south back towards the road hide, we see a small encampment by some ruined cars. Here we find a man in a brown robe. Junk for sale, he says, junk for sale, look it over. Make me an offer. You look like you're good with your hands, we can say. You do have hands, don't you? And he says, I can fix up all sorts of stuff. God me a blower, named it Claudia. It'll fit most any car, give it a lot more power, only 1,000 bucks. You interested? You bet. We can say, Claudia's my kind of, whatever. Well, give me six hours, he says, I should have it fixed up by then. Before you do, we can say a little more of your time. Sure, whatever he says, and we can ask him what's for sale. And true to his word, he's got junk for sale. And a combat knife and some brass knuckles. We'll also see that thousand dollars we gave him to install Claudia into our car. This is a great opportunity to get rid of weapons and stuff we don't need to get that thousand bucks back. Hey, I got five bucks. Got any good gossip? And he says, her tell there's a doc here in town, says he's got some miracle cure. I ain't taken it though. And we can give him another fiver for more gossip. Then there's Saltbeath. Old Cooot says he found a gold mine. Miss Dorothea Toto was out here last week, looking for some parts to fix the power plant. I couldn't help them though. Thanks for the money he says at last, but I don't know anything more. We can keep giving him money if we want, but he has nothing else to tell us. If we wait six hours for him to install Claudia, the blower into our car, he says there she is. Claudia's all installed. And he has nothing further to say to us on the matter. The blower improves our speed on the world map. We can get from point to point a bit faster. And that's everything for the bizarre. Next we can move south to explore NCR downtown. The first building we see is a brick sheriff's office with a pre-war American flag outside. Heading inside we see a number of NCR soldiers milling about. Now I'll say the same thing. Move along now. There's nothing to see here. That is until we find Deputy Carl standing in a southern road. Welcome stranger. He says, I am Deputy Carl. What can I do for you? I'm new to NCR we can say, what can you tell me about your town? This is NCR he says, capital of the New California Republic, population 3000 and growing, no slavery, no gambling, no chems. President is Mrs. Tandy. My boss is Sheriff Dumont. That answer your question? Where can I find Roger Weston? That SOB he says, he's got a spread just outside town. Just take the road past Stockman's. You don't like him much we can say. And he says, guess I'm pretty obvious. Lots of folk look up to him because he's a councilman. But not me. He thinks he's a big man. Like the law don't always apply to him. I'd like to take him down an auto to someday. Strange your things have happened we can say, what can you tell me about him? Well, a couple of years ago he had a stroke and now Doc Jubilee has got him on some kind of medication. What's it to you anyway? Oh nothing we can say, just talk. I'll quit wasting your time. But one more thing, I'm looking for Vault 13. So as I, when I was a kid he says, let me know if you find it. Jay thanks we can say. Hey, by the way, my name is Oxhorn and I'm in need of some honest work. Work he says, the Stockman's association is looking for guards. Raiders been hitting the cattle drives hard again. And I heard the president Tandy's been looking for somebody resourceful as she puts it. That help? That does indeed help. Moving on from Carl, we can examine these cells. The top one has a bunch of lockers. The next one is locked. After picking it, we find a guy standing inside. Go away and leave me alone. Peg he says. Oh nice. Even though the door's open he doesn't want to flee. And the bottom one is empty. There's a room to the south inside is a desk but it's empty as well. That's it for the sheriff's office. Heading out, we see an officer standing on a street corner. This is Sheriff Dumont. Take a word of advice from Sheriff Dumont Stranger. This town don't care for your kind. Any trouble and I come down hard. Now, is there anything I can do for you? Well, we can say I'm looking for some honest work. Can you help me? I can think of a couple things he says. If you're really interested. Like what we can say? Well, there's Dapo at Stockman's. He does the hiring for Brahman drives. Then there's Mr. Weston. If you talk to him, tell him I sent you. Even President Tandy's been asking around for some help. Weston, we can ask. And he says Roger Weston. His spreads just out the West gate. He's been having some problems with varments. He'd take care of it himself, but his health ain't what it used to be. Bad ticker. Doc Jubilee says. Well, who's President Tandy? We can ask. And he says she's President of the NCR. Who else? Things have got her so worried. She even asked to borrow one of my deputies for a special mission. Hated to turn her down, but I can't spare the manpower. Well, how about me? We can say maybe you could recommend me. You says Dumont? Hmm. I couldn't. Don't even know you. But she's looking to hire somebody. So you can go talk to her yourself. Her office is in the Hall of Congress. Well, do you know anything about a geck? We can ask. And he says, listen, I lead a clean and wholesome life. I don't have geck or anything else. Sorry, we can say. Well, what do you know about Vault 13? And he says, no, I don't. That's something even President Tandy would like to know. Solve a lot of problems. Problems we can ask? Look around you, he says. NCRs are growing place. We need parts, computers and whatnot. Then a problem ever since those squatters moved into Vault 15. Vault 15, squatters? What's going on, we can say? Desert rats, says Dumont. You got to understand. This town traces its roots back to 15. Seems there was some trouble there a long time ago. And the survivors founded Shady Sands. So by right, Vault 15 is our property. A few years back, some squatters moved in, and there's been trouble ever since. You should talk to Tandy about it. Thanks, we can say. I'll do that. Now, I have to note that Vault 2 Mont and Deputy Carl here carry Gauss rifles. Gauss rifles are one of the most powerful rifles in the game and game weapons for many characters. But to get these weapons, we do have to kill Vault 2 Mont and Deputy Carl. And that's because both of them have this weapon equipped. So we can't steal it from their inventory. Therefore, even though this weapon is available here, we're unlikely to get it at this point if we're trying to play a good character. Moving west down the street, we find Stockman's on the northern side. Inside, we find another dwarf. Greetings, stranger, he says. Don't know you from these parts. So that means you're not a rancher. You come looking for work? Or you just here to buy? Work, we can say. And he says, well, my name's Dupo. Ranch supplies and higher and hall, all done right here. Gotta say, you don't look like a Brahman puncher. How are you with the gun? Good enough, we can say. And he says, well, sounds like you'll do. We're looking for guards for a Brahman drive up to Redden. Pays $2,000. Minus any stock lost before you get there. If you're interested, be at the gate to Weston's place tomorrow. If you don't show, you don't go. Deal? Sounds good, we can say. By the way, I'm looking for Roger Weston. Ever heard of him? And Dupo says, yeah, he's one of the stockholders in this place. Westatown. I don't think he's looking for ranch hands if that's what you're thinking. Then we can tell him we're looking to buy. Well, says Dupo, here's my stock. Make sure to look at all my tables for more inventory. If you don't like what I got, get your rest to that Shister Buster. Of course, he'll rob you blind. On the Northern Table, we find some fusion cells, Stimpaks, a revolver, metal armor, Geiger counter flares, Crowbar rope, 5mm ammunition, 10mm ammunition, and a number of mid-level guns. On the Eastern Table, we find some spiked knuckles, throwing knives, combat knife, frag grenade, 10mm ammunition, a power fist, two HKP90Cs, an FNFAL, and a bunch of ammunition for all of these weapons. Pretty decent stock. Moving to the back of the room, we find a locked door. We notice a small hole in the door, where sound seems to be coming from. Hello, says a voice. Since when can doors talk, we can say? Sorry, says the voice. We don't need any of that. This voice has the same response no matter what we say here. We can't pick it or bash this door in, but we do see a door on the other side of the building. Moving outside and passing through a break in the fence, we can try to access this side door. But we get the same disembodied voice. There's no way in. If however we talk to DEPO with a high enough gambling skill, we find a new speech option here to say, yeah, yeah. Is there any other way to make a quick buck in town? And he says, there might be something like that. Let's just say the officials wouldn't want to know about an opportunity like this. Well, we can say, I would be willing to pay a little for some information. How much are you willing to part with, says DEPO? How about 500 we can say? And DEPO says, well, you didn't hear this here, but the password to the door on the back is, gain problem, limb. Heading to the door on the back. This time, would we hear the disembodied voice, we can say, gang problem, limb. Click the door on locks. We arrive in an underground casino. Place your bets. We have another roller. Here we can gamble at the craps table. But there's really no reason to. Despite all the effort it takes to get access to this place, the tables here are no better than the ones we can enjoy at New Reno. It acts just like any other casino. There's really nothing special about it. Continuing west, we find an energy barrier blocking off access. Talking to the guard on the other side of the barricade, this is private property, he says. Please move along. Excuse me, but who lives here, we can ask? This is Western Ranch, he says, home of Councilman Weston. Oh, well, I need to see the Councilman, please, we can say, well, what business do you have with Mr. Weston, says the guard? Well I'm looking for work and I hear that he is hiring, we can say. And if we talked with Doomat at the street corner, the guard responds by saying, hmm, I seem to remember something about work being available. All right, come in. Don't cause any trouble though. I'll be watching you. With that, he moves to a nearby console and disables the energy barrier. We arrive at Weston Ranch. We see a small hut to the south. Moving in, we find some stables and standing here is Salt Beef. Audi stranger says Salt Beef. Who are you, we can ask? And he says, well, what'd you say your name was again, stranger? I'm Salt Beef Bob. Salt Beef? What kind of name is that, we can say? Tarnation, it's a good and honest name is what it is, says Salt Beef Bob. The boys let me do some cooking around here and if you weren't such a tin horn, you'd know that and know to respect your elders. Sorry, old timer, didn't mean to Royal yet, we can say, Royal me? Royal me? You ain't seen me, Royal yet. Now just get out of my sight before you get me really upset. Go on, get it. Or we can say, bite me. And he says, well, bite me too. Now you're talking. Don't take no lip from nobody, partner. Say, you got any hooch on ya? Just a little sip. We got some from Mira, the bartender, so we can say yes. And he goaps it down. That's right, Foddy, a stranger. Find person indeed, kind of man should have his partner. Do I ever tell you about the time I made my big strength? No, we can say. It was back in 78, says Salt Beef Bob. And me and Bessie, best bottom man ever had, we was uranium prospecting west of here. He hadn't turned up or ran as worth of beans when all of a sudden five. No, I'm sure it was ten. Death Claus jumped us. They fought like hillcats. I fired so much I melted down my rifle barrel and was going at a knife to claw when O'Bessie finally busted her last circuit board. Well I tried to savor, but it weren't no use. Finally had to cut and run. Keep it up off with rocks all the way. Well things looked bad when I stumbled into this cave. Thought I was a goner for sure. Figured it was their lair, but I had me my torx so I went inside. Who are we? It was a deep cave. And that's when I savor it. It was a great big door. Like them kinds you see in the old video flicks. Big and made a steal. And on it was carved a great big thirteen. I knew I'd found it. The mother load. The vault thirteen. I sat right down and made me a map. Damn they're dying, getting out of there. Pass them death claws and then the sun of the desert and no water. By the time I staggered into shady sands I was mostly dead. Took me to the dock and fixed me up, but that dock stole my map. I knows it and that's all I got to say. Okay. So. According to Salt Beef Bob. He is bend of all thirteen and the dock has his map. We'll have to see if we can find it. Then here by workbench and pegboard are empty. Moving west from here we find a Brahman pen with a bunch of Brahman. They don't say, Moo I say. Sadly. West of here is a farm. We find one farmer here by a plow. I hear the bishops got it in for our boss. Says the man. In his shack. We find a bunch of rakes and a bed. We find a farmer in the northwestern corner. I'm so sick of Brahman she says. There's a bit of a garden here with benches and rocks. And attached to the garden is the weston mansion. We see the front door guarded by a man. We'll bypass it for now. Moving east we find one more shack inside we just find a generator or a pump or something which we can't interact with. So heading back down to the mansion we can talk with the guard. What can I do for you stranger he says. And if we talked with Sheriff Dumont we find an option to say, the sheriff told me to come by and Mr. Weston might have a job for me. Dumont says the guard, well that's good enough for me. Mr. Weston's inside. Before heading in we can ask him other questions. I'm looking for work we can say. And he says that's nice. Mr. Weston don't just see anybody. You got any cause? Well I'm looking for Vault 13 we can say. Ha he says another crack pot. You ought to go talk to Saltbeef. You and he'd get along fine. Heading inside we can talk to Roger Weston. I'm Roger Weston. And you can't come barge in in here. What do you want? I'm looking for Vault 13 we can say. Can you help me? And he says, well maybe I can. However I need a favor from you first. Something or someone has been raiding my brawmin at night. I need to find out what's up. How about going out there and looking into it for me. I'll pay you for it and I'll tell you what I know. Sounds like a good idea we can say I'll do it. Excellent he says Felix the front guard will guide you out there. Now if you'll excuse me. Now this is the guy John Bishop sent us to assassinate. Since we already covered that topic we'll skip the rest of this dialogue related to that quest and instead move south to talk with Felix. One with your meeting says Felix. Yeah he said to see you about some problem with the brawmin. We can say, right says Felix someone or something has been killing brawmin on the West pasture. I'll take you out there and you take care of it. Let's go. Okay we can say and we appear on a brawmin pasture. Nothing really happens after a while. Wow says the chosen one. This sure is boring. Hope something happens soon. Nothing really does. And after a while. Oh look at the time says the chosen one. But then after a while two death claw appear but these death claw can speak. Look human guard brawmin. Grooters say we go. No hurt human. The death claw walk away. Talking death claws says the chosen one. That's weird. Now if our outdoorsman skill isn't very high that's it. Nothing else happens. But if our outdoorsman skill is high enough after the death claw leave we notice that these things left some big tracks. It shouldn't be too hard to track them back to their nest and we learn that there's an exit grid to the northeast. If we walk on up to the northeast sure enough we find an exit grid. We are on it in a cave. Moving into the cave we see a split to the right. There's nothing here. Big empty room with bones on the ground. So going back to the split and moving left we find the entrance to Vault 13. We did it. We're here. Now we don't have to have high outdoorsman skill to find this path. If our outdoorsman skill is too low instead of an exit grid we find it blocked in with rubble. But due to the way this map was constructed we can't squeeze by a narrow little path around the rocks to the right. In so doing we can still access the exit grid to Vault 13. This is the second way to find the location of the vault here at NCR. But as I said we're going to explore all of them. So instead of going into Vault 13 we'll head back to Weston Ranch to do so we can take the exit grid to the west. Heading back to Weston Ranch we can check in with Felix. Mr. Weston is waiting for you he says. Moving inside you again what do you want? About your brawman problem we can say looks like all you've got to do is post a man out there. He doesn't even have to do anything just be there. I know it sounds weird but it will work. You mentioned some pay and Weston says I'm not sure I believe you but here's your pay. Hell if you've been lying my boys will find you. I also said I'd give you some information so here it is. I've heard a lot of stories about Tandy and the Vaultweller. Seems he saved her life years ago before NCR was even found it. Anyway legend has it that he spent a lot of time exploring a vault east of here. If that is in Vault 13 then maybe you'll find a clue there that will lead you to it. Thanks we can say. We must be talking about Vault 15. Its location has already been added to our map earlier in the game. We were told at Vault City that we could go there to see if we could find the location of Vault 13. In the room just north of here we find a couple of tables with food laid out, nothing inside of them, and all of the rooms and containers in this mansion are empty. That's it for Weston Ranch. Heading east we can return to NCR downtown. The first shack we find is empty, moving south of this shack, we find a bit of a farm. Lots of farmers milling about and a bunch of crops. There are two of W's shacks east of here. In the first one we find a bit of a lab or a hospital. There's a room to the north and a room to the south. In the northern room we find three beds, nothing here, back in the hallway we find a desk, and in the desk we find doctors papers. A set of very detailed plans for a cybernetic canine guard unit. With this in the right facilities a person just might be able to build a Robo Dog. Interesting we're not sure exactly what to do with this, we'll keep it for later. Inside the bookshelf we find a first aid kit, a doctor bag, and a hyperdermican needle. Moving into the southern room we find a man standing by a cyber dog. You see a strange half dog, half metal thing. It appears to be activated. Gerrrrrr says the cyber dog. Talking with the man. Excuse me, I'm Dr. Henry and I'm very busy. What do you want? And yes this is the very same dog Henry. The courier meets during the events of Fallout New Vegas, the same dog Henry who can fix up Rex, the cybernetic dog. Well dog Henry, I'm oxorn, the chosen one. I'm looking for Vault 13. The chosen one? Of course that makes sense. Interesting. I can't help you. I was assigned to cyber genetics research, not the Vault Behavioral Project. Vault Behavioral Project? We can ask? Something about extreme sociological conditioning says dog Henry. My Jew, I thought it was all so much mumbo jumbo, no real science in it at all. But I did hear something about 13 having to be improvised during the course of the experiment. Sloppy work I'd say. Experiment? What experiment we can say? And he says, oh my, I've said more than I should already. Never mind. And if anybody asks, I didn't say anything. Well wait a minute, dog Henry, cyber genetics? I don't remember ever studying that one. Oh, it's a whole new field, says dog Henry. Very exciting. Why I'm working on some projects right now. A radical new concept for the mutant problem. You see, it's really quite simple. Infancy isn't absolute. It can be cured. Of course, my simple minded colleagues were just trying to solve the whole problem the crudest way possible. Purification indeed. I'll admit there were some early problems, but I've got them worked out now. I think, in fact, you could help me perform the field testing. Interested? Field testing we can say? What do you mean? I've prepared a small sample of the serum, but it needs to be injected into a host, says dog Henry. I'm not letting you stick needles in me. We can say, you, says dog Henry. Oh no, the serum's not refined enough to handle such a low mutagenic quotient. It must be used on a super mutant. Inject the serum into a super mutant and then come back and report the results. I understand broken hills is full of them. Well what's it do? We can say? Says dog Henry, it should cause a regression in the genetic matrix that results in the destabilization and assimilation of aberrant DNA, leaving the host free of mutagenic potential. If I knew for sure, I wouldn't need you to test it. Well, what's in it for me? We can say. And he says, you'll be participating in an important experiment. In fact, the most important scientific, oh, you mean money. Well I do have a cyberhound Mark II personal security model that I brought with me. I suppose I could have it activated and online by the time you get back. Would that do? And the chosen one can say, a cyberhound? Sure, why not? Excellent, says dog Henry. Here's the serum. Fit it up in a Stim Hypo. All you have to do is use it on a super mutant and then report back to me. Like I said, broken hills. That's the place to look. Good luck. Now he said we should go to broken hills, but we can actually use this serum on any super mutant. We can even use it on the super mutants here in NCR. If for example we go to the Raheide and use it on Lenny, he dies. And apparently nobody seems to mind, but a more ethical way to do this is to go on one of Duppo's caravans. Remember when we visited him at Stockman's, he said we could meet the caravan master outside Weston's gate in the morning. So waiting until morning, we find him standing just outside. You hear for the drive, he says? Yes, we can say. Great he says, let's roll out. Head them up for redden boys. While on this caravan, we'll stumble upon three random encounters. Sometimes they're violent, sometimes they're not. But due to the route of this caravan, we are likely to bump into remnants from the master's army, super mutants. We can use this serum on a mutant in combat and after a round or two, he will die. When we arrive at Redding, the caravan master says, hot damn, you are just fine. There's a $1,000 bonus in it for you. That in $2,000 makes your pay. Redding better watch out tonight. But we now have to walk all the way back to NCR. There's no return caravan. And we left our highway man at NCR. No matter how we choose to test the serum, once done we can head back to Doc Henry. So how did it go he says? Is the test done? Yes, we can say. And he says how did it go? It killed him. We can say, you said it would cure mutants. You misunderstood, says Doc Henry. I said it would remove their mutagenic potential. The process does seem violent on the system though. Oh well, more refining to do. Or we can say, he's dead Jim. Which is of course a Star Trek reference. Sted Jim. And he says still some bugs I see. Well try and try again. What about my pay we can say? And he says of course, the cyber dog is on yours. Now I have work to do. With that we can now speak with the nearby cyber dog. Whoa, whoa, whoa, flick. Let's go we can say. And he joins our party. The cyber dog is not a very good companion. I use OK. But there's another cyber dog that we'll have access to later on in the game who's much stronger than this one. So I sent this guy back to New Reno and didn't make him a permanent member of my party. Moving east across the street from Doc Henry's, we find a building being guarded that has a small front garden. Inside we find a robed figure standing by a lectern. This person will only talk to us during the day. If we try to talk to her at night she says intruder, do you plan to desecrate this place? Out! And the church is closed. Come back tomorrow. But if we talk to her in the morning we can have a conversation. Greetings child. Are you one of the enlightened? She says. Uh, I really don't know what you're talking about. Oh, she says. Well, are you seeking true understanding and spiritual peace? We can help. No, we can say, I'm looking for a geck. I can't help you with that she says. However, our scientists in San Francisco might know something, perhaps you should travel there. Or we can say, well, I am the chosen one. The chosen one she says. Don't you mean AHS1? Just what text are you working from? AHS1, we can ask. And she says, a lined hub seeker. You are obviously not enlightened. She ends the conversation. Or we can say, it's simple. I am the chosen one because that is what must be. Predestination she says. What about free will? By your belief, nothing you do has any meaning since it's all determined in advance. It's like you're just a pawn in a game. We have three options. We can say, you misunderstand. Only my potential as the chosen one is predetermined. My choices and my actions determine the fulfillment of that potential. So she says, you're saying there's some higher power who creates us with a purpose and then just abandons us? I can't believe any being would be so kellis. Come, embrace the Church of Hibology. Let us show you the true way. Or we can respond by saying, of course, the universe is deterministic. After all, we've been put here for some purpose that's already known to our creator. As she says, without control of your own life, though, what's the point? Nothing you do has any value. Did you choose to get up this morning? No, you're just a puppet by your own philosophy. Now we at the Church of Hibology have a true answer. Or we can say, nonsense. There's no organizing force determining our fates. In fact, there is no higher power behind anything. The universe is just chance. I am the chosen one because others have declared it. That's all. And she says, oh, what a sad and empty philosophy that is. Even if it were true, the only course for you is to seek to develop yourself. It is the only thing you have any control over. The Church of Hibology can help. How, we can ask? And she says, the Church of Hibology exists to free mankind from the chains that have kept his full spiritual potential in shackles. How do you do that, we can ask? By purging you of the negative psychic energy that keeps you in an oppressive state, she says, only then can you be enlightened. Enlightened, we could ask. And she says, enlightenment happens when all your neurodines are aligned. Then you become an AHS, an aligned hub seeker, which is the goal of all hubbarnights. Neurodines, we can ask. And she says, neurodines are the psychic centers of the body. They become polluted by the spiritual remnants of the people who died in the war. Their sigh energies imprint into our neurodines at birth and hold us in an oppressive state. Alignment eases these imprints. An oppressive state, we can ask. As long as your brain chemistry is affected by negative psychic energy, your true spiritual potential is oppressed. Where still, oppressives can transmit this energy unless they are very, very strongly willed. So how does this purging work, we can ask? Is it painful? It's not painful, she says. We just undergo a zeta scan. I can do one now if you like. We'll save that for later. Instead we can go back into her dialogue tree. And when she asks us why we're the chosen one, we can say, well, that's what my elders says I am. A primitive belief, she says. But you show signs of great promise. We can show you the higher path. Would you like to know more? No, we can say, I've heard enough. And she says, lost are those who will not seek the hub. If you should ever change your mind, you're always welcome. Or instead of going through all of that, at the very beginning, when she asks us if we are the enlightened, we can get a quest from her by saying, yes, I am one of the enlightened. And she says, wonderful brother, so what level are you? What level are you? She says, I asked you first. We can say why. I am at transcendency, of course. Transcendency, she says. Honestly, how do they expect me to spread the word out here when they don't even keep me up to date on the latest doctrine? I tell you, spreading the word of herbology out here is harder than you could imagine. AHS9 just doesn't understand the difficulty. In fact, I've written it all down. Say, would you be willing to deliver it to AHS9 in San Francisco? I can't promise any reward, but I know AHS9 will appreciate it. Sure, why not we can say? Excellent, she says, here's the letter. Now, can I do anything else for you? A Zeta scan? A scan, we can say, why not? Ah, such enthusiasm. Come with me, she says. We appear in a nearby room. Close your eyes. This won't hurt a bit. There, we erased a few nasty imprints. You are now an AHS1. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have to tend my church. And we appear back at the lectern. From here on out, she won't speak with us anymore. Greetings, fellow seeker, she says. There is nothing more I can do for you. You must continue your journey as an AHS1 on your own. Before getting her quest, we did find an option to say, so you're that itch Mark wants scratched. And after talking with her, we understand why. She says, Mark, what does he want? I don't know what you did, we can say, but he's put a contract out on you. Killing me will serve no purpose. She says, I am not a threat to Mark. I simply irritate him because of my beliefs. I hope you'll refuse to honor the contract. Yeah, you're harmless we can say, which ends the conversation. Or we can say, forget it, you're one dead homologist. Which causes her to flee. Well, we don't want her to know what we're about to do. So we'll explore some of the ways to kill her. If we just open fire, that's gonna alert all of the NCR police. So instead, we'll perform the shady Sans Shuffle. Setting a timer on some dynamite, and then reverse pickpocketing it onto her inventory, we can hide in the next room. After a while, boom goes the dynamite. With the habologist dead, we can head back to the bizarre and check in with Mark. Ah, says Mark, I've heard the news. You're still interested in a job? Yeah, we can say I'm tired of freebies. I could use the work. And here he offers us the same job he would have given us had we defeated Lenny in a boxing match. Looks like we can do business friend, he says. Here's the deal. There's a loopy scientist in town. Dr. Henry, he's got some papers I'd like. I'll pay a thousand bucks for them. Oh, and I don't want no harm to come to Dr. Henry. He's useful alive. Interested? Well, we already have those papers. They must be the same papers we found in his desk in his laboratory. If we have them, Mark says, so is that little business with Dr. Henry done? Yeah, we can say. I got the papers you want right here. Days like this make me so happy, he says. Well, let's conclude our business. Well, success in your ventures, says Mark. I see no reason for us to talk again. But if we do talk to him again, we find a new option when purchasing information from him to say, I'm looking for info on Vice President Carlson. And here he gives us information that'll become useful when completing John Bishop's assassination quests. That I covered in my video on the bishops. So I won't cover it again here. But you know, Mark's quests here just aren't that interesting to me. So in my game, I chose not to kill the Habologist and not to steal Doc Henry's papers and deliver them to Merck. Instead, I chose to accept the Habologist's quest to deliver her letter to the Habologists in San Francisco. Enlightened one's letter, a report addressed to AHS9 in San Francisco. It's really dry reading. Tables of oppressive adjustments, expense reports, and other twaddle, not worth wasting your time on. Back in the Habologist's church, we can explore it. There's nothing much in here. There is a foot locker at the foot of her bed, but it's empty. Moving across the street, we find the hospital, just south of Doc Henry's lab. Talking with the doctor, he says, I'm Doc Jubilee. What's wrong, young man? I need a doctor, we can say. I don't know, says Doc Jubilee. Don't think I can save it. We may have to cut that leg off. You're kidding, says the chosen one. Nope, says Doc Jubilee. Never joke, best I cut that leg off before gangrene sets in. No way you're cutting anything off, understand, says the chosen one. Well, says Jubilee, if it festers, don't blame me. So what can I do for you? No where I could find Vault 13, we can ask. And he says, I hadn't heard that mentioned since old Salt Beef was brought in here. Sunstroke burned with fever for three days. All the time, ranting about how he'd found Vault 13, his mother load. Mother load we can ask? The big one says Jubilee, Salt Beef's an old uranium prospector. More accurately, a drunk lives out on the Western spread these days. So where is this Vault 13 we can ask? Couldn't tell ya, says Jubilee. Salt Beef always claimed he had a map, but nobody's ever seen it. Well I talked with Salt Beef, we can say, and he says that you stole a map from him. What's the deal? That old drunk says Jubilee, the only thing I ever got from him was my velvet Elvis painting in lieu of cash. A velvet Elvis, we can say, could I see it? Well, says Jubilee, I was really hoping to get some money for it. I'll let it go for $10,000. If we really wanted, we can say sure. Here's the $10,000. Thanks he says, I've been trying to get the money out of Salt Beef, but that bum never had any. Inspecting our inventory, we find a fuzzy painting. It weighs 12 pounds. But on the back of the painting, we find a hand drawn map showing the location of Vault 13. The painting was the map. Salt Beef was right. And sure enough, if we head back to the world map, we find Vault 13, just west of here. That is yet another way to get the location of Vault 13 from NCR. Probably the worst way, because it costs $10,000. In the hospital, we find a bookshelf, and Jubilee doesn't seem to mind if we loot it. We find a first aid kit, a first aid manual, a super-stimp pack, two antidotes, a bottle of heart pills, and a vial of poison. The vial of poison can be useful for trying to assassinate Roger Weston, which I covered in my video on the bishops. Head across the street to the east, we find Dusty's Cantina. Looks like a bit of a restaurant. Heading inside, we can talk to the guy behind the counter, who presumably is Dusty. What can I do for you, he says? Who is that big guy over there we can say, pointing to the guy sitting at a nearby table? That's Hoss, president Tandy's boy. Born trouble when he's drinking, so I'd stay clear of him if I were you. President Tandy, we can ask. Daughter of President Eradash, he says, the guy who founded NCR, she's been president for years, does a good job too. Well, what's there to do in town, we can ask? Not much, says Dusty. If you're looking for trouble, go drink someplace else, like the raw hide. If you're looking for work, there's the Weston Place, West of town. Heard some things about President Tandy looking for a specialist too. She is looking for a specialist, what kind? No, no, says Dusty. Goonther, her aide, probably does. He's down at the Hall of Congress. We can take a look at his inventory. He has a small-stash of money, a little bit of booze and some nukikola. Then moving on over to the other side of the Cantina, we can talk with Hoss. Hey you, turd face, he says. I don't like you, I think you should buy me a drink. Well, I don't want any trouble, we can say. Who doesn't want any trouble? Says Hoss mucking us. Well, you're gonna have it. You either fight me, or I'm gonna tell everyone what a spineless little baby you are. Bear fists, right here. And the same thing happens if we said bite me earlier or fine, let's dance. Hoss begins to fight us. Now the problem with this is that our companions think it's a real fight. They'll pull out their guns and kill Hoss here, which breaks the way this encounter was supposed to happen. So making sure our companions are far away, we can again start a fight with Hoss. And it's pretty tough. He drained nearly all my HP before I finally had enough of it. Equip it a weapon, I zapped him once. And he says, ow, you broke my nose. I quit, don't hit me anymore. Hey, I'm back enough, okay, don't hit me, says Hoss. And that's it for Hoss. There's nothing in the kitchen. We can buy a Nuka Kola from the Nuka Kola machine. Then moving out, we can continue east. The shack at the very bottom is a public bathroom. Some toilets, urinals, and sinks. East of this is a strange looking bunker with a weird symbol on the outside. Reminds us of the one we saw at the den. And standing outside, we see a man named Luke. Hello, Oxhorn, says Luke. Well, you've certainly come along away from the simple tribesmen. You should visit our San Francisco office some time. You might find it rewarding. Now, if you'll excuse me, I must be going. Well, wait, says the chosen one. But Luke ends the conversation. Hello again, he says, I have nothing more to say to you. If we try to open the door to his bunker, there is nothing for you in there, he says. Have these guys been watching us as we explore the wasteland? Moving north of here, we see what appears to be an auto garage. There's a wrecked car out back here, and we can open a garage door to enter. In this back room, we find an armored man. Sorry, he says, we're out of business. He doesn't mind if we explore all of his containers in this room, they're all empty until we explore the back table. Here we find a ranger's map, a map of the surrounding area. It won't help you much, but there are code names on it for the ranger safehouses in the north. And we recall that the slaver in the bizarre was looking for this map. We'll have to stop by to see if he wants it. But then that must mean that these are the new California rangers. Moving into the next room, we find a super mutant who appears to be a member of these rangers. Are you a ranger too, he says? We can inspect all of the bookshelves and find nothing. Then we can talk to the ranger standing on the western side of the room. What do you want, she says? Can you fix my car? We've gotten out of the car business, says Elise. Close permanently, goodbye. Or we can say, who are you? I'm Elise, that's gone. We are members of a group that's trying to do right for folks. You don't look like a charity or a church. No, she says we are not a religious organization. Or we can say, sounds interesting, right in what way? And Elise says, all right, so tell me, what's your opinion of slivers? Oh, well, some of my best friends or slivers we can say. That being the case, says Elise, I have to ask you to get out of my sight. Now, or we can say if they leave me alone, I'll leave them alone. That's the kind of attitude that allows the atrocity of slavery to exist in the first place, she says. I'm sorry, but there's no place for you in our organization. This leaves us with one option. We can say, hate him, disgusting, vile scum of the earth. I see, she says. Well, I represent a group called the New California Rangers. Someone with a view such as yours could qualify for membership. You interested? Sounds interesting, we can say. What can you tell me about the Rangers? We've got agents and sympathizers in some of the towns up north, she says. We're spreading the word and hitting slavers wherever we can. The Rangers sound like a group I'd be proud to join, we can say, sign me up. Not so fast, she says. You've got to pass a test to join the Rangers. A test, what is this school we can say? There's a sliver just outside of town, she says. Maybe you've seen his place. Free the slaves there, and then come back and talk to us. I can do that, we can say, and that ends the conversation. There is nothing else in any of these containers. We find a room filled with foot lockers to the south, but these also are all empty. Heading back to the bazaar, we can move to Vortus' holding center. Now we have to make a choice. Do we hand in the map, exposing NCR safe houses to these slavers, or do we destroy the slavers? Or do we do both? You're back again. Did you get that map he says? Yes, we can say. Good work, says Vortus. Now you best make yourself scarce in case those Rangers ever wise up. Pleasure doing business we can say, and all we get is 500 bucks. Then, or instead of, we can kill all of the slavers. They don't prove to be too much of a problem. They all wield early to mid-game weaponry, and they wear pretty basic armor. We can walk away with quite a few handguns, a ton of ammunition, and a small amount of caps. We see a small room with a cage door to the right, but there's nothing inside. Moving north to the bedroom, the foot locker and the desk aren't both empty. So moving south to the slave pens, we can access a console near to each group to release the slaves. The door opens, and they all run out to freedom. There are four of these that we have to open to complete the quest. When the slaves are gone, we can move north to explore a small outhouse, nothing in here. So to complete the quest, we can head back to downtown and move back to the new California Rangers office. Checking in with Elise, I've heard the news already, she says, you freed the slaves. Good work. So you're ready to become a Ranger? Yes, we can say, do you swear to fight slavery whenever the opportunity arises, and to help your fellow Rangers, whenever they're in need? Yes, we can say, congratulations, she says, you're now a Ranger. And with that, we get a small Ranger pin added to our inventory. This pin says you're an official new California Ranger. Look, it's got a code wheel and everything. It weighs one pound. Moving north of the Ranger office, we can head towards a small building when the woman standing outside of it stops us. Oh my God, she says, somebody's got to do something. What do I do? I need some help quick. What's going on, we can say? Oh God, it's Jack. He's threatening to blow up the power plant. There's no time. You have to stop him for me. You can do that, can't you? Stop wasting my time, we can say. Lead on. With that Dorothy and her Robobrain Toto lead us inside. We see an NCR soldier in uniform standing by some electronics. Bite me. This is Jack. People better listen to me now. I got a bomb in there, so don't try anything. People always laughing at Jack, calling him, whack Jack. Well, who's laughing now? I'm counting to three. And if Mira ain't here by then, I'll blow the place. One, two, but we can talk to him. Stay back. I've got a bomb, says Jack. Now, here we have to talk Jack down. This dialogue tree is filled with numerous pitfalls. There is only one dialogue path that leads to a success. If we choose the wrong response by saying something like, uh, stop. He continues with his countdown timer until... He blows himself up. Crap, says Dorothy. He's damaged the core unit. It's got to be fixed before things go to hell. You any good at repairing things? Despite our skill in repair or science, the only option we have here is... No. It just says damn. Then stand back. Unless I'm real lucky, the whole thing's gonna blow. Let's go, Toto. Dorothy and Toto move to the console, but they don't have any luck. If our repair skill or science skill isn't high enough, or if we just wait too long... The place explodes. Dorothy and Toto could die in this explosion, but sometimes they live. If she dies on her inventory, we find a number of skill manuals. Strangely enough, if she doesn't die, she continues to have dialogue as if the explosion is impending. Crap. I got one word of advice. Run, she says. Toto says, bzzz, arf, arf. Click arf. This is, of course, a Wizard of Oz reference, Dorothy, Toto, the dog. That dog's a medicine community. I'm taking him to the sheriff and make sure he's destroyed. Destroyed. Toto? Oh, you can't. But if our skill is high enough, we can use science or repair on the console to fix it. If successful, it says online running self-task, then talking with Dorothy, you fixed it without any parts? That's amazing. Where'd you learn to do that? Just handy that's all, says the chosen one. Look, it's not much, she says, but I've got some books, old tech manuals. They're yours. Take them. And that, we get a big book of science, a scouts manual, and a Dean's electronics. However, it is possible to talk Jack down. To do so, we follow the following dialogue path. Stay back. I've got a bomb, he says. Don't do this, Jack. There's always a better solution. Yes, sure. What would you know about this? Nothing, we can say. I don't know crap about your problems. Maybe you better tell me. What is this? Kind of trick, says Jack. Stahl Jack until his buddies come to kill him. Who wants to kill you, we can ask? That damn jerk of my ex-wife, Mira for one, she wants me dead. Who the hell is Mira, we can ask? Like I said, says Jack, my ex. I can't your sleeping around and now she's saying I'm the bad guy. Got the court to give her everything and she's still trying to screw me. Well, says the chosen one very understandably. That's hard. Completely unfair. No kidding, Sherlock, says Jack. Now folks are going to listen to me. Look, think this through. Blow this place up and folks will say Jack took the week away. Let himself be pushed around by his ex-wife. She wins, you lose. You really think so, says Jack? Yes, Jack, it's true. I don't know, says Jack. Now's your chance. Be the big man. Really, stand her down. Ah, hell, says Jack. Maybe you're right. This wasn't the greatest idea anyway. For talking Jack down, we earned 6,000 experience points. Talking with Dorothy, you talked him out of it. That's amazing. The town owes you a big mister. Look, it's not much, but here are some manuals I've been collecting. Maybe you can sell them or something. And again, we get the big book of science, the Scouthand book, and a Dean's electronics. I just want you to know I'm still impressed by what you did with Jack. Me and Toto have to run now. Pant, pant. Boop, go. Now there is another way to do this quest if we have a low intelligence chosen one. Remember he said the name of his ex-wife was Mira. We've already met Mira. Remember Mira was the name of the bartender in the Rohyd saloon in the Bazaar. If we talk to her with a low intelligence high strength character, she says, hmm. Work? Want job? Help Mira? Yes, says the stupid chosen one. Good. Mira have rope over wall. Go night. Find rope. Sneak in. Go big place by gate. Find Jack. Hurt Jack. Mira give you a gun. We find the rope that Mira threw over the wall on the eastern side of the Bazaar. Using this method, we can sneak into NCR downtown without putting away our weapons. However, her instructions to come here at night throw a monkey wrench into the entire quest. Because if we go into the engineering room, we see Dorothy and Toto standing outside. But inside, we don't find Jack. That's because Jack is on duty. He's inside the brick sheriff's office. To get this to work, we actually have to wait until morning. If we wait until morning, we see Jack walk from the sheriff's office all the way to the workshop. And he mutters things like, damn ex-wife. It's all her fault. What do you want? What do you staring at me for? But he doesn't threaten to blow up the place. If we attack him now, we can kill him to complete the quest, but Dorothy and Toto turn hostile as to the rest of NCR police. Instead, with a stupid character, after accepting the quest from Mira, we can wait until morning and then talk to Dorothy. Oh my God, she says, somebody's got to do something. What do I do? I need some help quick. Huh? Gug? You come. Stop bad man. Stop him, no brick machine. Okay? Okay. Now to complete this quest from Mira, all we have to do is allow him to blow himself up. We gained 2,000 experience for taking care of Jack from Mira. Or we can attack him. Once dead, we can talk to Dorothy. You killed him, she says. I mean, did you have to kill him? Wasn't there some other way? Yeah, we can say. And she says, well you should have tried it then. Instead of just killing him, get out of here, Yamonstor. And she doesn't reward us. Or we can say, no, there was no other way. It's terrible, she says. I wonder what made him do it. The town owes you its thanks. Look, it's not much, but here's some manuals I've been collecting. Maybe you can sell them or something. And we get the same reward. On Officer Jack's body, we find some plastic explosives and a sold rifle, psycho, some money, a frag grenade, a desert eagle, and ammunition. Then heading back to Mira at the Raheid saloon, we can turn in the quest. Back again, she says. Yobba. Mira here, Jack got hurt. Good work, Dumbba. Here gun. Get a take. Thanks. And we complete the quest. She gives us an HKP90C. The Hechler and Coke P90C was just coming into use at the time of the war. The weapons bullpup layout and compact design make it easy to control. The durable P90C is priced for its reliability and high firepower in a ruggedly compact package. Minimum strength 4, it uses 10mm ammunition. The HKP90C is an incredibly powerful weapon. It has between 12 and 16 damage, consumes 4 AP for single shot mode and 5 AP for burst mode. That gives it the highest damage per action point of any small gun and fallout too. And since it uses 10mm ammunition, it's really easy to find ammo for this thing. We find 10mm ammo all over the place. The downside is it has a small ammo capacity. Each magazine only holds 24 rounds. If we use it in burst mode, each burst fires 12 rounds, which means we might have to reload it after each turn, depending on our AP. It also has a fairly short range for the type of weapon that it is. In single fire mode, it ranges 30 and in burst fire mode, it ranges 25. But overall, it's still a very useful weapon. But Mira's quest is not the only place to get this. Remember, we found it for sale by DEPO earlier. That's it for NCR Downtown. We can now take the exit grid to the south to enter the NCR Council Hall. Moving forward, we see an energy barrier leading to Vice President Carlson's home. I showed off that section and explained how to get inside in my videos on the Bishop family. There's no loot there. It exists just for that quest, so we'll ignore it for the rest of this video. In the center of the Council Hall, we find a statue. There is a plaque at the base. It reads, to the stranger and Vault 13, what doesn't exist, we must sometimes dream and let our dreams inspire us to greater heights. So it was with the stranger and his belief in the legend of Vault 13. So this statue is dedicated to the Vault Dweller, our ancestor. By north, we find the Hall of Congress and just outside flies proudly the NCR flag. Heading inside, we arrive in a foyer, heavily guarded with a man standing just outside. His name is Ferdis. Talking to him, he says, welcome to Congress House. How can I help you? Can you help me find Vault 13 we can ask? 13, he says, or did you mean 15? I said 13, we can say. Well then, he says I can't help you with that. 15 then, and he says, oh, nothing, my mistake. You said 13, right? Well, I don't know anything about that. Okay. Well, you can't do anything for me unless you've got a geck we can say. And he says no. When I'm looking for a job, we can say. That's nice, he says. This isn't a hiring hall. Why don't you try downtown? What is this place we can ask? This is the Congress House, law-making body for NCR. Now what can I do for you? I'm here to see President Tandy, we can ask. Concerning, he says. I heard your president's got a job to be done. Oh, that says Ferdis. Talk to Mr. Gunther in back. Opening the door, we find Gunther in a tuxedo standing in the middle of the room. Can I help you, he says? Who are you, we can ask? And he says, my name is Gunther, personal assistant to President Tandy. Now, what can I do for you? I'm searching for a Vault 13, we can ask. Madam President, no longer grants interviews regarding Vault 13. I'm sorry. She is too busy to see every prospector who comes through. Huh, we can say, I don't get it. Then I suggest you read the plaque on the statue outside. Now, good day, says Gunther. We get the impression that since NCR and prospectors have spent so long looking for Vault 13 without success, that they consider it to be a myth at this point. Well, maybe you can help me find a geck, we can say. And he says, I have no idea what you're talking about. Do you have a real question? Well, I understand the president has a job that needs to be done. Oh yes, says Gunther. Well, she has instructed me to send in anyone asking about it. You're buzzed in. It's the door to my right. Before going in, we can explore the Congress hall. There's a door to the right, which leads to a couple of conference rooms, both are empty. Then opening the top door, we arrive at another conference room, also empty. This leaves one room. President Tandy's office, opening the door, we find her standing next to her table. I'm Tandy, president of the NCR. So you whip my boy hock over at Dusty's. Maybe you're the right man at the right time. Interested in some work? I might be. What's the job? We need some computer parts from our old base, Vault 15. Problem is, there are squatters there, we'll let anybody buy. Somebody has to convince them to let us in, or just bring back the parts. You up for the job? Sorry, this doesn't sound like my line of work. Pellin' thunder. Man, you're choice, but if you change your mind. I'm interested, but what's the job pay? It's all business, huh? Fine. 500, when it's done. I don't hang also, take it or don't waste my time. I'll take it, but I need some information. Well, I got a little time to spare. What can you tell me about Vault 15? It's just Easter here, an underground shelter from the war. Most families in NCR came from it, so it's rightfully ours. Go on. Couple of years ago, some squatters moved in and built a shanty town on the surface. They call it the squat. There are nothing but dogs in the manger. They can't get into the vault, but they keep us out. I see. Well, I need to ask you about a few other things. What do you want to know? Why haven't you made a deal with the squatters? I tried. I sent some people down there, but after the first few, they stopped coming back. I can't prove the squatters are responsible either. My boy's managed to capture one of them, but he won't talk. Got him locked up downtown. A few more questions, please. Get to it. I can't spend the day with you. I'll try to be quick. What do you want to know? Do you know where Vault 13 is? Vault 13. Why are you asking? I've heard stories, and I'm curious. It's just that damn myth-like lost uranium mines. I did need a stranger once who claimed to be from there. Lots of folks died trying to find that vault afterward. I'm the chosen one of my village. I am a descendant of the Vaultweller. You're serious, aren't you? If we're talking about the same person, he saved my life. Then vanished. When I start thinking it was only a dream, I go look at Statue out front. Statue? That's right, for scaring off the raiders. They kept clear shady sands afterwards, and we got time to get ourselves set up. We made him a hero, even if we didn't believe a word about him coming from Vault 13. My dad and Seth search for years trying to find Vault 13. They died looking. Always said it was West of here. If somebody were to find Vault 13, that would do us even better than 15. I'm looking for a geck. Would you happen to have one? A geck? Like the lizard? We got him all over. No, not the damn lizards. Never mind. What can you tell me about Nureno? Nureno? A damn bucket of brawmin' spit. Got every vice there is. We've got to be tough with him if we're going to unify this land. Congress has got to understand that. What about the bishops? Well, I'll talk to his night, but don't expect me to hug him. If you see any of them, you can tell him that, too. Rumor has it that NCR is making a deal with the bishops. No point trying to keep secrets around here. We're negotiating with Nureno for membership in the NCR. They should have some pool with places like Vault City. Tell me about the Congress. Most figure, we've got to work with Nureno one way or the other. But folks like Weston and the ranchers blame Nureno for rustling the cattle drives between here and ready. What can you tell me about Frank Weston? Congressman Weston? What are the biggest brawmin' ranchers around? His spreads on the west side of town. Just don't bring up Nureno if you talk to him. He gets him going. If you're looking for a steady job, you're not that type, are you? The elder of my village tells a story about the Vaultweller and someone named Tandy. Are you that Tandy? Lord, that was a long time ago. Hardly remember who I was then, just a naive girl. The one you call the Vaultweller. Is he still alive? The Vaultweller is my ancestor. He lives on in me. Yes, there's a resemblance. You've got the same fire too. I was always afraid that he was nothing but a skeleton somewhere in the desert. I'd like to hear your story. Figures. Well, I was pretty young when we met. There was a gang of raiders, the cons who had gotten hold of me. Things were looking pretty bad when all of a sudden this stranger shows up and rescues me. Your Vaultweller. The Vaultweller had many such adventures. I used to envy him that. I wanted a life of adventure, but I stayed here and took over his mayor when my dad died. Been running this place and building NCR ever since. Guess it turned out to be a pretty big life after all. The Elder will be happy to know that you're still alive. Is this NCR the Shady Sans the Elder speaks of? Boy, Shady Sans. Most folks call it NCR now. New California Republic. Pretty impressive name, huh? Tell me about the NCR, please. Blah and I could talk about that forever and I just don't have the time. Here's a holiday that's going to the NCR. We make them dispred to good work. Uh, thanks. That's all for now. I need to get going. She hands us an NCR history holo disk. This is exactly the same as the one we got while exploring new Reno arms inside new Reno. So we won't read it again here. So President Tandy needs us to take care of a squatter situation outside Vault 15. So they can get access to some machinery inside the Vault. Well, this is handy because we still need to find the location of Vault 13. And everyone at Vault City told us we could likely find its location from inside Vault 15. So with the location of Vault 15 on our map, we can head there to take care of both tasks. But I am all out of time. We'll pick up right here where we leave off in my next episode. I publish new Fallout videos each and every week on my channel. So if you don't want to miss the next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. I've been to Project Purity. Confound your friends and family who recognize the Jefferson Memorial, but have no idea what Project Purity is. This design comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find it on other products as well, like smartphone cases, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do when you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.