In yesterday's video, we arrived at Fortification Hill, simply referred to as the Fort, this is the Mahave headquarters of Caesar's Legion, and it is here where we will finally meet Caesar himself. How sent us here to use the Platinum Chip to gain access to an underground bunker beneath a pre-war weather monitoring station? What we'll find there, we do not know. House was tight-lipped on that issue, but before we can gain access, we need to retrieve the Platinum Chip. If we allowed Benny to escape the top's casino with the chip, then we need to track him down and retrieve it from him, or if we arrived here at the Legion's headquarters with the Platinum Chip on our inventory, Caesar confiscated it from us, so we need to retrieve it from Caesar. Either way, we need to head to the top of the hill to find Caesar. Now Caesar's camp is fascinating, it is after all the headquarters of a major faction in this game. There are many people to meet and talk with, lots of horrifying things to see. I could take an hour showing them to you, but I think it would be more appropriate to show off Caesar's headquarters here when I start my series on ending the game by siding with Caesar's Legion. Since right now we are focusing on Mr. House, I'm going to save the exploration of this camp for a future episode. For now, we climb the hillside, and when we reach the top, we open the tent flap to Caesar's tent. His tent is large, and Caesar is guarded by many Praetorian guard, and to the right. Oh, hey there, Benny! Looks like they got Benny, which means that Caesar has the chip. Under penalty of death, the prisoner is forbidden to speak with you until Kaiser has permitted it. We see Caesar sitting on his throne flanked by Praetorian guards, and it looks like House was right. He is bald. We're at least balding. You're the courier who caused so much trouble for my Legion, and yet you dare come before me. The garrison I established at Nelson has been wiped out. So tell me this, because I really want to know, I am feared with good reason. But you, of all people, dare to come here and stand before me, the mighty Kaiser. What were you thinking? If we have the terrifying presence, Perk, we find an option here to say, what was I thinking? I was thinking that I'd decorate this tent with your guts. Praetorian's to me! With that Caesar in the Legion turns hostile. Caesar is not much of an adversary. Couple shots to his chrome dome does him in, but his Praetorian guard are devastating. They all use powerful fist weapons. They're highly armored, and there are half a dozen of them not to mention the Legion Mongols. Even at my character's level, level 50, this fight was incredibly difficult. Far more difficult than fighting Mr. House's Secura Trons. I had to resort to using kems to survive. Do you see that, Benny? You want to be next? You're a scrapper, baby. I didn't stand a chance. How about me? What happens if I let you go? Baby, that can go any direction you want. We can take Vegas together, or I can head for the nearest sunset. You're called. Well, I think I'll just leave you here. Baby, you can't just leave me tied up. Those Legion boys will put me on a cross for the mess you made, if I'm lucky. Goodbye, Benny. Thanks for nothing, you think? Or we can threaten him and say, your next, say your prayers. You think, murdering me like this down on my knees? Or we can say, here, I'll set you free and untie him. That's it, baby. Time to vacate these premises. With that we gain karma, and Benny runs out of Caesar's tent. But he likely runs straight to his death, for we have not cleared the rest of the camp. However, this is a good option for keeping Benny alive, if we had. On Caesar's corpse, we find a displacer glove. This is a powerful fist weapon, but it's not unique. We can even find these on merchants, so I'm not going to cover it here. But we do find a unique armor set called Caesar's Armor. Caesar's armor is a light armor with a DTF-5 and a weight of 3. It's unique in that it grants plus 5 to speech and plus 5 to survival, making it the only suit of armor in the entire base game with a bonus to survival. Now some of the DLCs do have new armor pieces with survival, especially from the honest heartsteel scene. The Ranger hats and salt upon wounds, Helm, both have bonuses to survival. The suit of armor looks like Caesar's typical fare. He's got some sort of animal hide on top of a pre-war high school football jersey. These legionaries do love their football uniforms, and he has some sort of golden pin affixed to the breast. It does count as faction armor, however, which means if we wear this in NCR territory, they will shoot at us. Another option to initiate combat with Caesar is to say, death to tyrants. Preitorians to arms! Incidentally, this is similar to the statements spoken by the Praetorian Guard that assassinated the real Julius Caesar. But let's presume for the moment that we don't want to murder Caesar, and instead we want to find a way to get the Platinum Chip back using diplomatic means. We can respond, what was I thinking? Well I had to see the mighty Caesar with my own eyes. Maybe I should have you struck blind so my face is the less sight you ever behold. You're in possession of something that interests me. We'll deal with Benny when the time comes. What was I thinking? You guaranteed my safety. And you fell for that? Really? Because I'm going to have you killed now. Relax. I'm fucking with you. You do know why I wanted to meet you, right? A man nearly kills you so you track him across the breadth of the Mojave. To arrive on the strip and walk into the Lucky 38, like someone left you a key under the door mat, you visit the tops and next thing you know the head of the chairman is fleeing the strip like a whimpering little pup. When you set your mind to something you get results. I like that. The question is, are you ready to get started? How do you know so much about me? I have eyes and ears everywhere. It behooves me not to invade the West blind and deaf. It hasn't been hard to track your progress. It's not as though you've been keeping a low profile. Just let me deal with Benny and I'll be on my way. Benny is my prisoner. You don't deal with him unless you've dealt with me. Don't worry. You'll get the platinum chip he was carrying. And then you'll use it like I tell you to. We can butter this guy up by saying, how may I serve your legion, Kaiser? I like the serveile attitude. Keep it up. The time is fast approaching when my legion will assault the great dam and invade the West. Before that happens I want Mr. House knocked out of the game. A quick one-two punch with you during the punching. What are you saying I have to do? Down the hill at the West edge of camp is an old building. It was here when the fort was taken in 2277. Inside the building is a hatch. And inside that hatch are two steel doors that bear the sigil of the Lucky 38 Casino. Now that same sigil is on the platinum chip Benny was carrying when we captured him. Isn't that interesting? Even more interesting, there's a slot about the same size as the chip when the console that opens the hatch. So you know what I think? I think the platinum chip opens those doors. There's that can't be pride open or drilled open or blasted open. Because all that I tried. What's on the other side of those doors? Benny's theory if I understood it through all the screaming was that Mr. House stashed some kind of ultimate weapon down there. A gigantic robot to stop us all to death. Who cares? Whatever it is, House built it. So I want it destroyed. Well maybe Benny could do it for you. I wouldn't trust Benny to lick my boots clean. This one falls to you. So you can't trust Benny who's never provoked the Legion in any way, but you'll trust the guy who killed Volpe's in Kulta and raised both Nelson and Cottonwood Cove. Yeah, that makes sense. Well can't your Legionaries take care of this? Yes, but then I'd have to kill them. You don't get it, do you? The weapons I wield are forged from blood, flesh, sin, bone, mortal stuff, fragile even. And yet my Legion obeys me even unto death. Why? Because they live to serve the greater good and they know of no alternatives. House's machines, his technologies. What did they propose? The possibility of victory without sacrifice, no blood spilled just rivets. That's not an idea to be put in circulation. If mankind's going to survive this moment in history, it needs warriors not gadgets. Well, what is it you want me to do once I'm inside? I want you to destroy whatever you find in there. And then I want you to come back here and tell me about it. I'm not asking you to do this. I'm telling you. Now take the platinum chip, go down to that bunker or whatever it is, and destroy whatever Gizmo happy Brahmin, shit you find. And just in case you're thinking of slipping away, now that you finally got that platinum chip in your hands, go ahead, try that. And I'll have you hunted down and your head mounted on a pole. Talk to Benny on your way out. He knows I'm going to let you decide how he dies. Maybe you want to remind him. I don't think the Caesar guy has taught this through very well, but it looks like he and House want me to go into the same bunker, so for the moment our path is clear. But now we need to talk with Benny. Pussycat. Ain't this platinum? Had I known I would have baked a cake. The last term we took is an 18 karat memory baby. It's all that's been keeping me warm at night stuck where I am. He is responding so warmly to my character because in this game save, my character slept with him in the top casino. He escaped in the middle of the night as she slept beside him. We can comment on that intimate moment in three ways. Sorry, Penny, you didn't make much of an impression. Oh, I made an impression alright. The dent in that mattress was permanent. I didn't come here to reminisce. Well ain't you a sentimental broad. Give me a sec to jump off Cloud 9, I'll meet you on the ground. Or we can feel sorry for this poor guy and say, oh you were amazing. Don't I know it? Too bad a conjugal visit here isn't practical. Down to brass tacks. How'd your meet and greet with Baldi go? Well he gave me the platinum chip. Sure. Baldi wants you to go down there in the bunker and destroy whatever Mr. House stash there. Oh you don't want to do that baby. Whatever's down in that bunker is the key to the city called Vegas. So here's what you do. You go down there and you use the chip to do whatever Mr. House would have wanted you to do. And when you get back to the strip, you find yes man. I made it so that cat can't help but be helpful. Dig? With Penny here tied up on his knees, we find unique dialogue options to get more of his story and the story of his tribe that we can't find anywhere else. So unless we allow him to flee, it's our only option to learn these stories. We can ask, was your tribe always called the chairman? Now in the way back we called ourselves the boot riders. Silly name but that's how we rode the Mojave dig on our feet. We were nomadic bad asses not to be trifled with. The gang of ruffians though with a certain panache. When House gave us the tops to renovate, his robots dropped off boxes full of suits and ties and wingtip shoes. Told us we were the chairman now. That caused an uproar but I said the name sticks. Chow to the old ways baby. Time to swing in style. If the shoes fit, you wear them. How long were you the head of the family? Seven years. Took over three days after Mr. House introduced himself. Our chief at the time, mountain of a guy named Bingo, wanted to stay nomadic. I disagreed so he challenged me to the knife. He looked so surprised when I stuck that knife in his neck. Thought he was so tough but he was so slow. That's how I made chief. It's how things were back then. How did Mr. House introduce himself? We were used to Vegas when the first secure tron we ever saw rolled up on us. We'd junked it in a minute flat. The next day, twenty rolled up so we'd listen. Where'd we been selected? Vegas needed us to defend it. In exchange we'd get cushy digs full stomachs medical treatment. Everything in no man never gets in other words. Most of the tribe thought we should say no. I thought it was the best idea ever. So what happened to you after you fled the tops? I prefer the term relocated. It took every stealth boy I had to cross the river at Cottonwood Cove. That was a close shave riding a boat full of Legion boys. Once I was across, I changed into a uniform. I swiped off a dead Legionary outside Nelson. Tried to sneak into the bunker but that didn't work out. They found the chip. I wasn't going to tell them what it was used for but let's just say they were persuasive. Yeesh, so the Legion tortured poor Benning. Hey, tell me about the factions that want to rule Vegas. Which greedy overlord do you want to start with? Why shouldn't Mr. House run Vegas? Mr. House hides Vegas under his skirt when the bombs fall a thousand years ago so it belongs to him. Forever? You buy that? Baby, every boss has a line to explain why special. Why everyone's got to do what he says. You're just figuring that out? Vegas got a swing, baby. Got to have pizzazz. Respect where do but that old man is square to the core. Well Benning, tell me about the three families. The chairman are true blue. The O'Mare Tizzard degenerates never trust them or the white gloves, just something creepy about them. Set it upright and the families will roll with your caper. You might have to do some convincing. Well, I've already dealt with the top-send Gamora about the white glove society. Well, they're next on the list. What's so bad about the NCR? Ain't we covered this? The only thing not bad about them is the Aink Legion. The NCR is the biggest gang of thieves in the Mojave. Only difference is they pass laws to make their crimes legal before they commit them. So you think Caesar would really try to destroy the strip? Nah, just spruce it up with a crucifixion here and there. Come closer so I can step on you. The Legion is twisted, baby. Original losers worshipping the King of Creeps like he's some kind of god. They're worse than roaches. My advice? Put on your stomping shoes. So what if my choice is none of the above? Now you're talking. That is the ring-and-ding move, baby. First base is whatever Mr. House would have you do. Follow orders, rig the game to his specifications. Then when you ain't looking, you knock him out of the running and find a way to take control of those security trunks of his. Go see yes, man. I made it so that cat can't help but be helpful. Well, Benny, Caesar says I get to decide how you die. Try not to smile so wide, baby. You might break your mouth. Yeah, Baldi said you'd get to decide. So which way are you leaning? Do you have a preference? Yeah. To die in my sleep at a ripe old age after a marathon session of hey-hey with 36 star broads. You'll set that up. Look, I ain't a harbor for illusions. I ain't expecting to get out of this shindig alive. That's why I'm trying to hand you my scheme, baby. It's called having a legacy. I haven't made up my mind yet. I know so many options. How do you choose just one? You know, something bad could happen to you right here. The direct approach, eh? Fair enough. But you should wait until the bunkers take care of. Caesar won't like it if you eat dessert first. Maybe we should fight it out in the arena. Fair and square. You do that for me, baby. Don't tease if you don't mean it. Chris Afection is always an option. Yeah, real popular around here. It's a crowd pleaser. And if I helped you escape? Sweet to offer, baby, but if you cut these ropes every legionary in this camp's going to come run it with machetes. Now on the other hand, if I had a stealth boy and a bobby pin, I could see myself out. You know what I mean? If I do help you escape, what will you do next? Baby, if you show me the door to Scram'sville, that's where I'll go. Out of your hair, never to return. I've been a think to you. Cause more than my share of grief by a hard mile. Let me go. You won't see me again. I'll see what I can do. Checks in the mail, hey. Don't get my hopes up. Ta-ta. Lots of options. But we can't choose any of them until after we do what Caesar asks in the bunker beneath the Weather Monitoring Station. Heading out of Caesar's tent, we find the Weather Monitoring Station by turning around and heading west. We see the stations antenna off in the distance. Just like the Legion has pitched a bunch of Legionary tents here, we find them working out and practicing on target dummies. Sure enough, we find the antenna at the back of the station and we find the door inside rounding to the southern side of the building, opening the door inside. Caesar has permitted your weapons to be returned to you while you serve him. Well, it's about time. Hand him over. Caesar has put a lot of trust in you. Be worth it. The new slave girls are quite beautiful. Listen to these creeps. They all look like creeps too. Is it just me or does every Praetorian Guard have a greasy mohawk and is wearing some shades? At any rate, we find ourselves in a large room with a bunch of terminals sitting on some desks. However, these are broken terminals. Well we can't place the chip here. Where can we place the chip? It is then when we spot a console in the corner to the southeast. This console hums quietly, powered by some unknown source. There is a round slot in the console about the size of a large poker chip. We can leave the console alone or insert the platinum chip into the console. A secret hatch opens in the floor before us. Looking down some stairs, we find an elevator door at the end of a hallway. This brings us to a secure Tron vault. At the bottom of the elevator, we step into a room where? Oh! Oh, fancy seeing you here. I see you reached your destination safely. Shall we get to work? Alright house, I made it in. Now tell me. Why did you send me here? The platinum chip is a data storage device. I need you to manually upload the data from the chip to the facility's primary computer. There's a terminal at the other end of this facility. There's a complication. While I can broadcast to this screen, I can't control any of the facility's systems. That means I can't deactivate its security bots, most of which appear to be active according to the status board I'm looking at. What is this place? It's a facility I built many years before you were born. You might think of it as a barracks. You'll understand soon enough. A barracks? Well you should know, Caesar wants me to destroy this place. Was that meant to be a shocking revelation? Of course Caesar wants a destroyed. He's afraid of what the bunker might hold and rightly so. You don't say okay. Well goodbye. Goodbye? Is that some kind of joke? You barely understand what I want you to accomplish down there. What makes you think Caesar gave me that chip? The platinum chip unlocks this bunker. Hence you have it. Hence Benny was captured or killed, possibly by you, but by my estimates far more probably by Caesar's Legion. Hence Caesar gave you the chip. Hence Caesar wants you to destroy whatever you find in this bunker. That's not going to happen because you're going to work for me. This work sounds important and expensive. Fine. You'll receive a nice bonus when the work is done. What was that you said about security systems? The same equipment failure that prevents me from remotely operating this facility seems to have activated its security robots and turrets. There's a security room near the base of the stairs. Perhaps you can deactivate them yourself. I've decided to do as Caesar asks and to blow everything up down here. Listen to me very carefully. I waited too long for this moment for you to go fouling it up on a lock. Do as I say and your rewards will be immense. Fort me and your punishment will become the purpose of my existence. Nope. I'm going to blow it all up anyways. Then there will be no safe haven for you. If we choose this option we can't talk to him again. Have you come to your senses? It's not too late to upload the platinum chip's data to the primary computer. But we can always fulfill House's task thereby redeeming ourselves. Or instead of threatening him we can say, we'll see what happens. I like to think you have enough sense to do the right thing. The rewards for doing so are immense as are the punishments for not doing so. Or we can agree up front. Don't worry House, I'll upload the data just as you ask. Good. I won't hold you up any longer. So we have to make a choice. Blow up this vault at Caesar's request or use the chip to upload the data to please Mr. House. We find a terminal on the southern wall, vault status terminal. Inside the first option is a status log where we read a series of events that all happened on the same day. On November 14th, 2279 the system detected a radiation leak at 347 in the morning. One minute later the vault dispatched maintenance bots to fix the leak. Two minutes after that there was a power surge. Deactivating the maintenance bot, four minutes later the vault moved to security alert level one. We took one minute to activate Protectrons, Turrets and the Sentry Bots. So what does this mean? Well we know that Caesar and his Legion first occupied Fortification Hill in 2277. The year they were first defeated at Hoover Dam. It took them four years to recuperate to the point where they are at now and we learned when talking with Caesar that they had previously used every trick they had to try and gain access to this underground vault. Why bet is that Caesar tried to access this vault in 2279, two years ago and two years after their defeat at Hoover Dam. Whatever they did to try to gain access likely involved explosions, explosions that caused the radiation leak and possibly that deactivated the maintenance robots. This I think would help explain why House was having problems accessing the vault remotely which is why he needed our help. But it also means that we've got robotic security to deal with ahead of us. Backing out we can check the status of each of the primary defenses of the vault, Turret, Protectron and Sentry status are all active. Backing out of the terminal we can head through a doorway and down some stairs where we see our first robotic enemy. We can use the opportunity to pull out the pulse gun that we got when completing quests for the Brotherhood of Steel. This should make Midsmeet of the robots. Be beautiful. Heading down the stairs we see a door to the south and a hallway to the west. We'll go through the door first. Inside we find the security room House told us about. There's a small store of goods here, a plasma rifle leaning against three ammo containers against the wall, and four lockers but sadly they're all empty. Against the western wall we find a computer bank. The first locked with the hard lock Protectron Operations Terminal. The second locked with an average lock, Turret Operations Terminal and the third which is unlocked the Sentrybot Operations Terminal. Accessing the Sentrybot Terminal we find it corrupted. Error. Network connection not found. Dummy terminal and active. The only option we find is no. I guess this means that there's no way to turn off the Sentrybots. Moving over we can hack the Turret Control Terminal where we find an option to cancel the security alert. This will turn off all turrets making things easier. But the Protectron Terminal is locked with a hard lock. I was feeling lazy didn't want to deal with it plus my pulse gun deals with them pretty effectively so I ignored it. Heading out and going down the western hallway. We see that the door to the left is already opened. Heading inside we see a bunch of Protectron Charging Docs but there are no Protectrons here which of course makes sense because the security alert level 1 must have activated them all and they must now be wandering around the facility. Heading out we can cross the hall to the room across the way but this door is activated elsewhere. So our only option is to turn west and open the door. We see two Protectrons. We arrive in a large hallway. A little bit of scrap laid out, windows to the right and left and oh that's his secret. What a secret. The Securitron Vault is filled with Securitrons. Mr. House sent us here to wake up his army. It's all coming together now. Going through the door and down the stairs we find two more Protectrons. And then rounding some generators we find two more. We see a room to the left, sparking with electricity. There's a destroyed Mr. Handy in here. This must be the maintenance pot we read about that got deactivated. We see the reactor that's powering this vault and we find a big box, a power regulator. If the bunker's power regulators are destroyed, its reactor core will overload in a matter of seconds with catastrophic results. So this is how we can destroy it to please Caesar. We'll go through both options first. Let's destroy the vault. Getting out a better weapon. Stabbitage detected. Sentry bot patrol mode activated. Oh great. We don't appear to have done much damage though. Maybe that means there's more regulators to destroy. Heading down the hallway and turning into the next room. Sure enough we find a second. Warning. Power fluctuations detected. Situation reaching critical levels. Heading out and opening the next door to the left. We go down a hallway and then up some stairs through a door into the computer room. To the right we see a Securitron Operations Console. This is the Securitron Operations Console for the Securitron Vault. Software updates can be installed from this console. Ah so this is what we should activate to fulfill Mr. House's request. We could insert the plan M chip to install the Mark II upgrade software, but we won't for now. The door jammed to the west, which means the next power regulator must be back downstairs. Heading down, turning left we find another room with a Protectoron. Law of hiding citizens. Please leave the area. And sure enough, the next power regulator. Warning. Multiple radiation leaks detected. Evacuation recommended. Sirens Blair. We fail. The house always wins and we get attacked by Sentry Bots. Heading through the door and down the hallway we get attacked by two more Sentry Bots. Explosions raucous from either side. And we see Mr. House's Securitron Army up in flames. Moving around and racing up the stairs we find another Sentry Bots. And heading through the door we can see how Mr. House feels about what we've done. Do you have the slightest idea of what you've done? Of what you've destroyed? You've doomed Vegas to be ruled by corrupt bureaucrats or fanatical savages. Single handedly you brought mankind's best hopes of forward progress crashing down. No punishment would be too severe. With that we can return to Caesar for a pat on the head. Or since we're siding with Mr. House we can ignore these power regulators and instead make our way up the stairs to the Securitron Operations Council. We can then choose the option to insert the Platinum Chip and install the Mark II upgraded software. With that we get a message. This successfully upgraded to Mark II and peering out the window we see a new Army man face on the monitors of these Securitrons. And in the background we hear the mechanical rhythm of a thousand Securitrons preparing for war. That door to the west was still permanently locked so we need to backtrack down the stairs through the generator room up the stairs, pass the Securitron hallway and back up to check in with Mr. House. Your work here is done. Return to the Lucky 38 so we can discuss next steps. You have a very bright future ahead of you thanks to your actions today so does the rest of mankind. What will you do with your Securitrons? My Army will do what an Army does best. Defend territory from invaders and maintain order. To get the impression that as selfish and self-centered as House may be, he does have the ultimate survival of mankind in mind. Likely for his own personal benefit but doesn't matter how mankind is saved as long as mankind is saved? Well, not if your name is Benny. Speaking of Benny, we soon have to make a difficult decision about how he dies. But first we must check in with Caesar. No matter what decision we make in the Securitron Vault, Caesar will assume that we've destroyed the Securitrons. After all there was a huge explosion when we overloaded the reactors and a huge rumble when a thousand Securitrons lapped to life. How is Caesar to know what really went on down there? Heading inside the tent we can address Caesar. I felt the ground shake a while ago. I'll take that as a sign you've got the job done. There are rewards for doing as I command. Today your reward is vengeance. You get to decide how Benny dies. Go to Benny. Let him know what you've decided. My Praetorians will perform the execution unless you want to perform it yourself. Caesar has the same response to the bottom two options if we say, can I set him free? Or I don't want to decide. What's wrong with you? This man shot you, stole from you, left you in the desert to die. You need to work on your blood thirst. We won't speak again until Benny is dead. Walk away if you want, but if you do, he's going up on a cross. You're still making a choice. So instead we can say, thank you, Caesar. Consider it the first of many bestowments. Well, what to do, what to do? Poor old Benny. So baby, what did you find down there? Hundreds of security drones. All of them upgraded now, just like Mr. House Wads. So all this time the old man had an entire army on layaway? Clever player. Just imagine the look on Baldi's face when those security drones come pouring out on judgment day. I paid to have that bronzed. So all you got to do is talk to yes man. Figure out how to set things in motion. Make Vegas a town I would have been proud of baby. Let it swing. I may, but right now I have to decide what happens to you. I see. And how's that going to happen? How about I untie you? What am I going to say? No thanks. If you can get these ropes off, I'll do my best to take down my share of the guards. OK, Benny. Let's do it. Ring it ding ding, baby. I've got your back. With that we gain karma and the courier and his or her former executioner stand shoulder to shoulder to take on Caesar's legion. But pay me does it last very long. And the Praetorian Guard target him first, making it extremely unlikely that we can keep Benny alive by choosing this option. But if somehow we were able to keep him alive, once Caesar and the Praetorian Guard are dead, Benny says, I know that was hard to hear a lot of sound effects going on at the time, but he said, oh, forget it, I'm going to go get a drink and then he races out the tent. But of course, then he has to survive the trip out of Caesar's camp, which is nearly impossible unless the courier cleared it before. But if for some reason he does escape Caesar's camp, he disappears from the game forever. Alternatively, we can say, I've decided to kill you here and now. I see. Keep it simple, eh? Around here it's one of the better options. You can close your eyes if you want. Nah, I'd rather see it coming. Do it baby. Make it clean. We can use this opportunity to pick pocket Maria off of his inventory. Strangely enough, the legion didn't confiscate it. This allows us to execute Benny using the same gun he tried to execute us with, allowing us to earn the challenge talk about owned. And isn't this a reversal? A long ago, Benny stood here with this same gun aimed at our head. There is something poetic about that kind of justice. And yet to kill a man with his hands tied and kneeling on the ground before you, as just as it may be, it doesn't feel right. And so our next option is to say, we'll fight in the arena, fair and square. Machete is a 20 paces, hey? I accept your challenge. Let's do it then. You're a class act baby. Not to say I'm gonna make it easy for you. With that, Benny and the courier arrive at the arena. Machete is in hand. Well creep. They hardly even know how to fuck. Had enough? Damn! You like that? We take off his head, gain a big dose of Caesar's Legion fame and Benny dies with dignity. We can then loot Maria and Benny's suit from his corpse. Or we can say, you will be crucified from my amusement. Don't do that baby, not crucifixion. I could be up there for days with those twisted creeps laughing and pointing. Past the time thinking over your mistakes. You s**t vindictive f**k! With that he fades from our view and presumably gets teleported to a cross. To find Benny, we head out Caesar's tent and then leave the fort. But just before taking the stairs down to the dock, we turn right where we find crosses on a bluff overlooking the river. Where hangs Benny tied to his cross? Happy now you twisted b***h! Well I ain't gonna give you the satisfaction. Scram! Will ya? I got nothing to say to you. Benny is brave and cavalier. In the face of every other way to die, except this one. But then again crucifixion is one of the most horrible ways to die. Or finally, we can say, we talk about how you might sneak out of here. Yeah, we talked about it, but that went a big fat nowhere. It's too late for that baby. This decision you gotta make is going down now. So what's it gonna be? Here's the stealth boy and a bobby pin you need to escape. Baby, your generosity and spirit of forgiveness? Off the charts. This little care package is everything I need. I'll take it from here. With that, he activates the stealth boy and moves for the exit. But of course the Legion watches him disappear. And they immediately attack us. The problem is that Benny's stealth is not very high. The Legion quickly sus him out and kill him. The best way to go about this option is of course to kill the Legion before handing him the stealth boy and the bobby pin. But if we choose to do it before killing the Legion, the trick would be to incapacitate the Legion, maybe by crippling limbs. Before they can reach Benny's, that at least he has a chance to sneak out of the tent flap. Or to somehow do enough damage to all of them to retain their aggression so that they continue to focus on the courier. Still this is a very difficult thing to pull off. No matter which way we chose to deal with Benny at this point, we could continue to work with Caesar, or we can leave the fort and return to the Lucky 38 to report our success to Mr. House. Now House's security drones on the strip are not only upgraded, but he also has an army. Being to tackle either the NCR or the Legion or both. Thanks to the courier's efforts, House is well on his way to becoming uncontested master of Vegas. But what will he ask us to do next? After all, there are many other factions in the Mahave aside from the NCR and the Legion. We'll find out in our next episode. I publish weekly content here on my channel, so be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button to be notified of my next episode. I have a brand new shirt in the shop, folks. Now I am become death, destroyer of worlds. The very phrase from the Bagi Vagita that Oppenheimer thought of upon witnessing the world's first nuclear detonation. And recited by Nick Valentine upon witnessing a similar detonation on the island near Far Harbor. The shirts come in men's and women's sizes in a wide array of colors and in a variety of sizes. I've also got a bunch of other designs and products for sale, so if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming one of my patrons on Patreon. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you very soon for the next episode.