The Brotherhood. Monsters. Heroes. Both? Uh, he's a complicated organization. In the Fallout show, the Brotherhood is filled with good people doing their best to survive, trying to do the right thing. Bad people. Being cruel for the sake of being cruel. The Brotherhood of Steel is a complex organization, and it's also one of the oldest post-war organizations in the Fallout universe. Because the Brotherhood of Steel was actually established before the bombs dropped. We learned from Fallout 1, while exploring the ruins of the Mariposa military base that Roger Maxson, a captain in the United States Army, seceded from the Union with his forces after he discovered the scientists at the Mariposa military base were experimenting with FEV, the forced evolutionary virus. What he saw there so horrified him that he rebelled against America and founded the Brotherhood of Steel. It was a few days after that that the bombs dropped on October 23, 27, making the Brotherhood of Steel older than the apocalypse itself. The core belief of the Brotherhood of Steel is that technology cannot fall into the wrong hands. Who are the Brotherhood of Steel? Our order seeks to understand the nature of technology. It's power. It's meaning to us as humans. And we fight to secure that power from those who would abuse it. How did mankind abuse technology? Before the Great War, science and technology became more of a burden than a benefit. The atom bomb. Bioengineered plagues and FEV are clear examples of the horrors that technological advancement had wrought. We're here to make sure that never happens again. One of the Brotherhood's standing orders is being on the lookout for valuable technology. Anything that would help us in our efforts. Civilization is something I think of every day to rebuild that, to reclaim that. Our successors are going to need the secrets of the past. And those secrets are in danger of slipping through our fingers forever. The Brotherhood is going to be more than an armed fighting force. We are going to be the guardians of civilization. So we have to grab every schematic, every holotape, every book, every goddamn note, that holds the building blocks of the Old World before it is too late. Helping your fellow man is a good goal, a soldier's goal, but this. We will be the catalyst that changes the world. What Roger Maxson saw at Mariposa convinced him that some technologies are so powerful that they can't be entrusted to anyone, that no one can be trusted to use them responsibly. And so he made it the sacred duty of the Brotherhood of Steel to find, safeguard, and sometimes use technology. We see this core belief structure still alive and well in the Brotherhood in the Air 2296. You will help nights fight and identify pre-war tech. We are the finders and the preservous. Unless you know what to find and preserve, you are more useful as a corpse. And it's a common theme that is repeated whenever the Brotherhood appears in a game. It was irresponsible use of technology that led to West Tech experimenting with FEV on people that led to super mutants. And so the Brotherhood of Steel has tasked themselves with reversing this mistake and destroying all super mutants, all aberrations of technology from the face of the Earth. Super mutants? I thought the enemy was the Institute. Super mutants are no better than scents. There are a reminder of man's folly when it comes to harnessing technology, whether it's using biochemistry to manipulate genes or trying to create life from a bunch of circuits. It's the wrong path for science. As members of the Brotherhood, it's our sworn duty to exterminate these abominations in every form. It was mankind's folly to develop the atomic bomb. And it was our own hubris that led to the apocalypse of 2077. Goals are the physical manifestation of this human hubris. If it weren't for the nuclear apocalypse of 2077, Goals would not exist. From the Brotherhood's perspective, the Goal is a mistake that needs to be corrected. A Goal? Huh? Those things are scary shit. They just killed it on site. No questions asked. How you're a Goal? You're a dead Goal. And this is why when Thaddeus thinks that he's becoming a Goal, he fears for his life. I think you might be a Goal. Oh no. The Brotherhood. Look, tell me if they find out. He knows that the Brotherhood kills Goals on site. Not just because they're racist against Goals, but because it's part of their core belief structure. Goals represent an abuse of technology and therefore they must be destroyed. And when the Institute created this synthetic humanoid during the events of Fallout 4, it was the Brotherhood who left the ruins of Washington DC for no other reason than to destroy the synth because it's an aberration of technology. The Institute scientists have created a weapon that transcends the destructive nature of the atom bomb. They call their creation the synth, a robotic abomination of technology that is free thinking and masquerades as a human being. This notion that a machine could be granted free will is not only offensive but horribly dangerous. I am not prepared to allow the Institute to continue this line of experimentation. Therefore, the Institute and their synths are considered enemies of the Brotherhood of Steel and should be dealt with swiftly and mercilessly. And so the Brotherhood has tasked themselves with taking possession of all pre-war and post-war armaments. In Fallout 2, the Brotherhood sends the chosen one to get Verdabird plans from the Onclave, which is why the Brotherhood uses Verdabirds in the Fallout Show. In Fallout 3, they uncover a pre-war giant robot named Liberty Prime that they repair and then set loose on the ruins of the Capital Wasteland where upon it throws giant nukes all over the place at Super Mutants and Onclaves Soldiers. A robot they then cart all the way north to Boston to repair and release all over again after they acquire a huge stash of nukes in a pre-war nuclear silo. The Brotherhood sees themselves as humanity's last hope by finding technology, by possessing technology, by hoarding technology, they're doing the world a favor. Which is why they can excuse the fact that sometimes they have to steal food from settlers. The food stores don't replenish themselves, so I need legs on the ground to hit up farms in the area. We'll be requisitioning a portion of their armist, and I need that food created and ready to go for when I send out a collection team. Your mission will be to ensure full cooperation of the civilian farmers by any means necessary. You get to make sure those farmers down below donate a proper amount of their crop to the Brotherhood of Steel. You get their cooperation by any means necessary. All that food can better be used by the Brotherhood and the Brotherhood is mankind's last hope, so even if a few settlers starve, it's for the betterment of mankind. That's why the Brotherhood can excuse taking over an entire settlement. It's really clear, but let it be a little bit more fun to fight, and go away. Sure, a few people have been made homeless and even murdered a little bit, but it's for the betterment of the Brotherhood and the Brotherhood is the last hope of mankind. It just so happens that a lot of this technology makes them very powerful, and they're not afraid to use it. But when they use it, it's good. They need this technology to find technology. You guys use pre-war technology to find and collect pre-war technology to make sure no one has pre-war technology? I mean, yeah, well, when you say like that, I mean, yeah, it's weird. From the very beginning, the Brotherhood has taken on a quasi-medieval structure. Roger Maxson was inspired by Arthurian myth, and so when he created his new order, he created ranks of knights and scribes, squires and paladins. A knight? What is this, the Dark Ages? Judging from the state of the world, it wouldn't be a stretch to say we're living in that era again. Brotherhood of steel? What's that even mean? The men over here are confused. We need to do something old. We can't just stay the US Army. I understand. But a Brotherhood? Knights? Am I supposed to call you what? Valder? Words of power are losing. They build identity. Take on a meeting if you keep using them, even if it didn't exist before. It was the knights and scribes after the fall of Rome, and protected what was left of Western civilization. So we are the new knights and our role is similar. But we'll be more than names. We'll need new traditions, our own mythology. Something people can believe in to their core. Is this necessary? What else can I do to clear myself, President? Scribes were the historians, the record keepers, the mechanics, and the scientists. In the games, these scribes were pretty well educated, especially about technology and mechanics, but not necessarily about history. Which I think is why we learn from the show that teaching world history to their initiates wasn't really important to them, as demonstrated by Maximus, who doesn't even know that the bombs dropped in 2077. Can I ask you a favor? You told me what happened in the last 200 years. I know about the Great War and the bombs falling and the 320 years of American history before then. I just need help with the last 200 years, after the bombs fell. The bombs fell when I was a kid. Is that what they tell you in your Brotherhood? He thinks the end of the world was when Shady's sands was destroyed, but to be fair that was the end of his world. Knights were the violent arm of the Brotherhood, used to exert their will over the wasteland, to achieve their goals by violence, but not because they like violence, of course, but because it's a means to an end. Violence is merely a tool we use it to bring order to the wasteland, but violence against a brother of steel is a sign of weakness. This quasi-made evil styling of the Brotherhood of Steel was there in the very first game. When the Valdueller stumbles upon the Brotherhood of Steel at Lost Hills, all of the ranks are intact. The history and codices are written, the elders and scribes wear long robes and the knights wear their power armor. But the Brotherhood has presented themselves in different ways in different games. In Fallout Tactics, which is somewhat canonical, some of it is canonical, some of it isn't, they deemphasize the medieval aspect of the Brotherhood. The Order took on more of like a scrappy wastelander, mad max vibe. But by Fallout 3 they had returned to their medieval roots, with the elders and scribes wearing robes, and in Fallout 4 we see much of the same thing. Proctor Quinlan, a scribe, suitably attired. Though by the events of Fallout 4, everyone in the Brotherhood whom we see had been deployed on a mission, which is why many of the scribes we find are field scribes, wearing a tire that was suitable for that mission, which is why some of the officers wear uniforms and max in himself wears an armored coat. It's in Fallout 4 that the Brotherhood first starts using Latin. It's in Fallout 4 that we first hear them shout, AdVictorium. AdVictorium, initiate. He doesn't even know what that means, Hailen. AdVictorium means to victory. In our eyes, defeat is unacceptable, because we're fighting for the future of mankind. Our rally in Christ is more powerful than any weapon you could ever carry. Remember that. In Fallout 76, which takes place 25 years after the bombs dropped, we do find hollow tapes from members of the Brotherhood, including Paladin Taggarty and Roger Maxson himself, where they use the phrase AdVictorium. AdVictorium, describe Grant signing out. This retcon shows us that the Brotherhood has always used Latin, and this was carried on into the Fallout Show. Maximus himself uses the phrase AdVictorium. AdVictorium! And this is why the scribes, during Maximus's sentencing, begin to chant in Latin. AdVictorium! There has been some criticism about how the Brotherhood is depicted in the show, suggesting that the medieval trappings and Latin chants are out of place because they are more Catholic than they are Brotherhood. But I don't think that's necessarily a good interpretation of what we see. As we've already covered, Latin has been spoken by the Brotherhood since the very beginning, medieval trappings have been adopted by the Brotherhood since the very beginning. The show is the first time we ever see them mimicking traditionally Catholic rituals. However, I don't think that means that we need to assume that the Brotherhood is in any way religious. We have to remember that the Brotherhood of Steel was founded by an army captain. The guy didn't have a PhD in medieval history. Roger Maxson likely never studied the history of Christianity. He was inspired by Arthurian myth and legend. He then set out to create his own mythology based on that. But it would be more than names we need. New traditions are own mythology. The scribes we see in the show are wearing robes because they saw robes in a book somewhere. The guys are swinging sensors and speaking Latin because they saw it in a book somewhere. Just because the Brotherhood in the show is mimicking Catholic traditions doesn't mean that those actions have any religious significance to them. They've taken those traditions and reinvented them for their own purposes. I think these scenes add a lot of interesting flavor to the Brotherhood and they do fit in with the vibe that the Brotherhood has been going for since their very foundation. The Brotherhood we find in Hollywood in 20296 are the direct descendants of Roger Maxson's Brotherhood at Lost Hills. Over the years, the Brotherhood has gone many places. Their original home of Lost Hills became the state of Maxson. The territory of Maxson was then absorbed by the NCR. When they weakened during the events of Fallout 2, they had token presences in the form of bunkers at Shady Sands, San Francisco, and the den. And at this point we don't know exactly where the West Coast elders went. We know that they still existed because they were able to send an expedition to the ruins of Chicago, which took place during the events of Fallout Tactics. It was in search of this Lost Expedition that the Brotherhood then sent elder lions in 2254, along with him they sent young Arthur Maxson, a direct descendant of Roger Maxson, the Orders founder. They never found the Midwestern chapter of the Brotherhood of Steel and so they moved on to the capital wasteland, arriving in 2255. But even after sending two expeditions east, the West Coast elders of the Brotherhood of Steel still had enough forces to send a third expedition east. It was in the 2260s that the West Coast elders sent a Brotherhood expedition under the leadership of Elder Elijah to the Mahave wasteland. This Mahave chapter of the Brotherhood of Steel came into direct conflict with the NCR and lost a number of battles, including the battle at Helius I. However, the east coast chapter of the Brotherhood, under elder lions, had greater success. While the West Coast elders were eclipsed by the power of the NCR, the east coast brotherhood was essentially unopposed. They defeated the enclave with the lone wanderer's help during the events of Fallout 3, and after consuming all of the technology from the Adam's Air Force Base, the Pentagon, and the mobile base crawler, they were able to project their power north, eventually building the Pridwin from the ruins of the mobile base crawler, and using it to venture into the Commonwealth, arriving during the events of Fallout 4 in 2287. And this is the last we hear of the Brotherhood of Steel until the Fallout Show. In the Fallout Show, we find that the Brotherhood is not hiding in their bunkers, at least not the same way they were in Fallout 1, at Lost Hills, nor the way that they were in Fallout New Vegas at Hidden Valley. Instead, they have taken over a former military airfield. The base is on a flat stretch of land, but it's nestled between the mountains. We see not so distant mountain ranges from every angle of this airfield. And this actually makes a lot of sense. If the Brotherhood of Steel wanted to distance themselves from the NCR, aside from going underground, their best bet would be to go to the mountains, which they could do with their vertebrates. But then a catastrophe happened. Shady Sands, a former capital of the NCR, was destroyed. During Maximus's flashbacks, we see the Brotherhood in the ruins of Shady Sands, just after the detonation. We know that they weren't responsible for the destruction of Shady Sands. They didn't fight with the NCR at this point in time. Why were they there? Well, they were likely there as part of an expedition, to find out exactly what happened here, and to see if they could recover any technology. That's when they found Maximus, an orphaned boy. And instead of leaving Maximus to his own fate, they chose to adopt him, to bring him back and to raise him as a Brother of Steel. That became a core memory for Maximus, and a moment that forged his personality. Instead of seeing what was essentially a scavenger coming to these ruins to pick what he can find, he saw a literal knight in shining armor come to rescue the helpless. That's what Maximus saw the Brotherhood as in his mind, which is why discovering the reality of the Brotherhood as he grew up there, became a bitter pill to swallow. But that's a story I'll be covering later. The destruction of the NCR left a bit of a power vacuum, but the Brotherhood of Steel isn't the kind of organization to just sweep in and start establishing cities and governments. Which is why I think that so many years after the destruction of shady sands, the Brotherhood is still at their airbase, up in the mountains. What have they been doing all of this time? Well, we get a hint as to what they've been doing from Knight Titus. This way, so it sucks, the clerics too, sending me stupid missions for remnants that turn out to be toast to them. Titus has been a knight for a long time, long enough to be fed up with the clerics and the leadership of the Brotherhood of Steel. He said that in the past, the Brotherhood sent him to hunt down remnants. What kind of remnants? Well, we don't really know these could be enclave remnants, or maybe even NCR remnants. Maybe the Western chapter seized upon the opportunity after shady sands was destroyed, to get rid of their rival once and for all. And perhaps this can explain why the NCR, if elsewhere, still hasn't come back to rebuild shady sands. To everyone's surprise, an airship appears at this airbase. Players of Fallout 4 instantly recognize this airship as none other than the Pridwin, but its true identity is still a mystery. In promotional images for the Fallout show, Vanity Fair dubbed this airship the Casuanon. However, sharp eyed viewers zoomed in on the airship in the actual footage of the show to see the word Pridwin written on the side. So which is it? Is it the Casuanon or the Pridwin? The answer to that question is really important. If it's the Pridwin, then that means that it travelled all the way from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to Los Angeles. It means that either the Minuteman ending or the Brotherhood of Steel ending are the canonical endings to Fallout 4. Because those are the only two endings that don't result in the destruction of the Pridwin. If it's not the Pridwin, then we have to explain how these West Coast Brotherhood were able to make this airship after being repeatedly weakened by numerous expeditions east and numerous wars lost to the NCR. For the moment I think our best bet is to go with what our eyes show us. And what we see is the name Pridwin written on the side of this airship. This infers that Arthur Maxson, a direct descendant of Roger Maxson, the original founder of the Brotherhood of Steel, has come back to the West Coast and met with the West Coast Elders. But what's most interesting about this is that the West Coast Elders took their orders from Arthur Maxson, or whoever's in charge of the East Coast chapter after the events of Fallout 4. They got their orders from the Commonwealth. Now until the show, it was the West Coast Elders that gave orders to the East. After all, all of the East Coast expeditions came originally from the West. We were dispatched with a specific mission. Lions directly refused orders, and so the West Coast cut us off. We live and die by our dedication to the Brotherhood to go against orders. It's not something that's done, but it's quite possible that by now the balance of power had shifted. Not only was the East Coast Brotherhood the only Brotherhood that had ever been successful in any recent wars, but the direct descendant of the orders founder lived on the East Coast. It's possible that by the time of the show, it was Arthur Maxson, who was giving orders to all of the Brotherhood, including the West Coast Elders. The East Coast Brotherhood had discovered that a really important piece of technology had just been let loose upon the wasteland. Perhaps they learned about this when bounty hunters sent broadcasts out telling mercenaries exactly what to look for. The East Coast Brotherhood caught wind of this and then sent orders to the West Coast to hunt down Willzig and his dog, for he was in possession of the artifact. If the West Coast was now taking orders from the East, this could potentially explain what otherwise would be a very odd thing. At the very end of the series, the West Coast Elder begins to plot with Maximus. The Brotherhood has lost its way and yet power is taken, not given and together you and I, we will take power and with it we will start a new Brotherhood with me as it's head and the likes of you as it's sword. Why would he want to start a new Brotherhood? Is he not already in charge of the existing Brotherhood? Well apparently not, if he's taking his orders from the East. This bit of dialogue is open to interpretation but I interpret this scene as being the beginnings of a power grab. Perhaps this elder, a remnant of the West Coast Elders, is bitter that power has shifted East, that Arthur Maxon in his youth is now ordering them around. Perhaps this elder sees possession of the artifact as an opportunity to take greater power, to depose Arthur Maxon, to put the East Coast chapter of the Brotherhood of Steel back in their place. Perhaps that's what he's hinting at here and maybe that's the story they'll explore with the Brotherhood in Season 2. There's one more thing about this chapter of the Brotherhood that we should talk about at the very beginning of this series when Maximus first turned into a squire. While he's being interrogated, he mentions something called Eden. If I can help the Brotherhood make it better, Eden, or whatever. Eden, or whatever? It's clear that Maximus doesn't know what Eden is but it's a word he's heard before and he's heard it here with the Brotherhood. The Brotherhood has had plans for something called Eden. What is Eden? Well two things immediately spring to mind. There's of course John Henry Eden, the former president of the enclave who was destroyed by the West Coast. The Lord was destroyed by the lone wanderer and the Brotherhood of Steel during the events of Fallout 3. They're probably not talking about him. And then there's the Garden of Eden Creation Kit, which was invented by Dr. Stanislaus Braun of Vault-Tech. It was included with some of Vault-Tech's vaults and this Garden of Eden Creation Kit or Gek is an almost magical device that can be used to terraform the Westland essentially. And it's been used in Fallout's history in the past. Vault-8 is one of the few vaults that successfully recolonized the wasteland. By using their Garden of Eden Creation Kit, we get to explore Vault-8 and the city they created with their Gek, Vault City, during the events of Fallout 2. Could this be what Maximus is referring to when he says, Eden? Could the Western elders be trying to get their hands on a Gek or is Eden a code name, a nickname of something? Perhaps Eden was the Brotherhood's nickname for the artifact for Cold Fusion. It's hard to tell because it's never mentioned in the show again. No one else in the Brotherhood, not even the elder, mentions Eden. They always refer to the chip implanted in Will's Exhead as an artifact, not Eden. So maybe Eden is the artifact, maybe it is Cold Fusion, or maybe it's going to be explained further in Season 2. But when Season 1 ends, we're left with an emboldened Brotherhood of Steel that just defeated the NCR at the Griffin Observatory, a Brotherhood of Steel that recovered an ancient artifact that gives those who possess it infinite power. And for all appearances there is no force on the West Coast to oppose them, but appearances can be deceiving. We know the enclave is out there, we know the NCR is still out there. The Brotherhood may be in power now, but I wonder if they can keep it. Where do you think the showrunners will take the Brotherhood in Season 2? Are you happy with how they're depicted in Season 1? Do you think it's a faithful depiction of the Brotherhood as presented in the previous games? Or do you think they took some liberties that they shouldn't have? I'd love to hear what you have to say, let me know your thoughts in the comments section below. I publish new Fallout videos each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss my next one, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already, but you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a plush for sale. It's in stock and ready to ship, but I've got limited quantities and I'm almost sold out. If you want to make sure that you get your Oxorn plush before I'm out, snag one today. I've also got a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in another way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comment sections of my videos and access to Ox emojis that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thanks so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more Fallout videos. You