In our last episode, we finally met the she and explored the steel palace. We have now uncovered every way to get fuel for the PMV Valdez. No matter which way we chose, we now have a fully fueled tanker. There is one thing left to do. Heading back to the tanker and going upstairs, we can head to the captain's terminal. Welcome to Poseidonet. This terminal is limited to transmission between one tanker, PMV Valdez and docking rig. Command, we can check status, fuel tanks, full. Cargo hold, empty, navigation computer, functional. Mooring lines attached. This leaves one option. Go. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. We have now found the ship. I have now found the ship. I have now found the ship. I had also done for high ships. We disembarked the ship. We disembarked the ship. We disembarked the ship. We disembarked the ship. Let's get this job done and go home. We can't go back to the ship. The only path we find is between two large pipes leading deeper into the rig. Heading through. Oh, those are turrets. But they didn't attack. Why didn't they attack? I guess we should count our blessings and not ask questions. We arrive in a large square room. This perimeter is lined with turrets and on the floor in the middle of the room we see a large square engraving. On-glave. Next to the engraving is a terminal access point. Welcome to Poseidonet. Enter menu selection. We could try to log on, but we don't have the password just yet, so instead we'll access help. Welcome to the Poseidonet help system. We regret that your help files are currently out of date and unavailable. Like help file update? Someone updated the help files after the war? What stored them in the cloud? Yes, we can say. User help file update not available with Trial Poseidonet software. Please purchase full version for full access to all further updates. Your trial period for Poseidonet access is 59,439 days overdue. Well, great. That was useful. Backing out of the help file we can try to log on. And the terminal displays a list of about 500 user access login names. If our chosen one has only around 100 in science, of those 500 only two stand out to us. The first one we see, Jay Smith, has OK access. And if we select it, we find that the only option we have access to is to examine the oil rig's security status. Activating it, information and power plant level, security turrets currently at normal status. The other name that stands out to us from the list is the Presidential Pascay Security Override. This one looks kind of special. Security Override requires presidential only Pascay. Options allowed, counterinsurgency, or emergency defensive system shutdown. We can try to take a look at the counterinsurgency option, counterinsurgency. In the event of an armed rebellion, Presidential Security Keycard allows defensive systems to be turned on all previously loyal, but now threatening units within an area. Defensive systems are programmed to attack most dangerous foe first. Warning, current operational level, entry levels only. Ha, OK, so it's a counterinsurgency option that only works at the entry level, presumably in this room, and it attacks rebels, people previously loyal to the enclave, but who have turned. That sounds useful, says the chosen one. If we try to activate the counterinsurgency protocol, presidential security keycard required to access this function. Keycard not found. I wonder what else I can try, thinks the chosen one. We can go back. Next we find emergency defensive systems shutdown. The emergency defensive systems shutdown temporarily shuts down active security systems on a level by level basis. Shutdown starts deep diagnostic procedure before initiating auto reboot of security systems. That sounds like something good to try, thinks the chosen one, and we can activate the emergency defensive system shutdown. But again, presidential security pass key not recognized. Access denied. Hmm, thinks the chosen one. I wonder if I can fool the scanner into thinking I have the key by hacking into the access file. I think I'll try. Illegal procedure detected. Further access to this terminal is denied. Maintenance alert sent. Damn, says the chosen one. That's not what I wanted at all. Well, that's not the outcome that we wanted. It looks like we can only make the most of this terminal once we have the presidential access keycard. So reloading a previous save to before we got locked out of it, we can come back after we find the presidential access keycard. If our science skill is at 125% or greater, a new name sticks out to us of this initial 500. User T. Murray, who has better than average access. Under his account, we find an option to download the AEC, Atomic Power Plant Operation Security Status. And we find a new entry on our Pip Boy. Power Plant Operations. Memo. AEC's status brief. From Tom Murray, Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission to Cabinet, subject, danger of overdependence upon central computer for all reactor control. Note to the cabinet, I hate to be a nag by bringing this up all the time. But I cannot overemphasize the importance of diversifying our Atomic Power Plant's control systems. Here's my official report. I think that once you read it, you'll understand why we need to have a backup system. Tom. Atomic Energy Reactor Regulator. Voltig's new uranium nuclear reactor has been working to top efficiency so far. With the state of the art computer systems that were made specifically for the task of regulating the coolant temperature, as well as many other key functions, we are able to allow the reactor to run with minimal supervision. The new Synchronic Multi-Processors that we had built into the Tri-Processor motherboard are able to multitask the coolant temperature, the intake of cool seawater, the outtake of expended coolant and waste from the reactions, and the regulation of the neutron bombardment upon the uranium. Without the computer systems, the reactor would go out of balance almost immediately, causing a chain reaction bombardment of the uranium isotopes. Within two hours or less, this would result in a nuclear explosion equivalent in the 100 kiloton range. The sum of the main portions of the reactor are placed under water beneath the station. This arrangement allows the ocean's natural temperature to keep the exterior cooler. Seawater from 500 meters is pumped into the coolant chamber. A portion of the cool seawater is diverted into the containment unit, where the core and control rods are. There, it circulates through the core, becoming heated from the nuclear reaction taking place. The seawater reaches the boiling point, and the resulting steam is used to turn the turbine generator to create all of our electricity. The steam then condenses and returns to a filler tank. The cleansed water is entered back into a preparation tank, ready to start the cycle all over again. The severely radiated water and miscellaneous toxic materials are pumped out of the station through a waste conduit, terminating one mile to the south. Reports from our survey crews state that our a fluvia drifts down the coast of southern California and Mexico, causing irreversible ecological damage. Many of the beaches are now saturated with toxic waste and highly radiated sea life. Fortunately, this doesn't affect us. In any case, if our reactor is shut down, we do have some backup batteries that can be used to power vital systems throughout the enclave until power is restored. However, these do not include extraneous and high energy items such as force fields. Also as a safety precaution, certain watertight doors throughout the station will close when power is reduced to prevent flooding in case of an emergency. This will restrict movement through the station, but movement to the top of the station is still possible through alternate routes. The real problem is that if the computer is shut down or destroyed, unlikely though both of those events may be, the reactor will go critical to the point of meltdown within two hours. We need to install some sort of human maintained backup system. I know that you may think I'm an alarmist for bringing up these provisions for an unthinkable event, however it always pays to be prepared. In the meantime, let's just make sure that no one blows up our computer. Haha. Yours, Tom Murray, Chairman, AEC. Holy cow! We just learned almost everything we need to know. Now the document had way more info than we actually needed, but in short, all we have to do is blow up the computer's controlling, the rig's nuclear reactor, which will deactivate any force fields, thereby releasing any prisoners, and since there's no human maintained backup system, this will cause a chain reaction which will lead to a meltdown, completely destroying the rig. However, there is a danger. Once the reactor is shut down, it will activate an emergency protocol that will seal all doors on the enclave oil rig, except the ones that lead to the surface. It looks like once we destroy the reactor, we will be able to get out, but we won't be able to go back for anything important. Next, if we have a science skill of 150% or greater, a new name stands out to us, the name of Dr. C. Curling. If we log in with his account, we can download the Chemical Core Project Status Report. We can then read the project in our Pip Boy. MMO, the project's quarterly status brief from Lieutenant Colonel Dr. Charles Curling, US Chemical Core 2 Cabinet. Subject, project near reaching full operational status. It is my honor and happy privilege to report the near completion of the project. After years of work, we've managed to isolate the most toxic elements of the FEV virus. Some of the only recently decoded information that we were retrieved from the abandoned military base on the mainland has been instrumental in advancing our research. We've discovered that the FEV virus was not originally designed to be used as an agent for the creation of super soldiers. Initially, it appears the FEV was designed as a virulent toxin. Only later was the FEV virus manipulated in an attempt to create super soldiers. By backtracking somewhat in our research, and with the help of the additional information from the military base's records, we've been able to turn our version of the FEV, FEV Curling 13, into a far more toxic agent. Final tests conducted on the Vault Descendant Subjects from the village Aroyo have shown a survival rate of 0% with most deaths occurring within 1 hour of exposure to a 0.001% aerosol solution. By contrast, the subjects extracted from Vault 13 tend to suffer subdural hemorrhaging and convulsions within 1 hour of exposure, with death not occurring on average for another 14.5 hours. In either case, the FEV's toxicity levels are now sufficient to ensure a clean sweep of all infested I.E. non-onclave locals. Its releaseable levels of FEV Curling 13 show a 95% probability of 0.00007% average saturation. While the consensus of the chemical core is that this would be a sufficient level to ensure the success of the project, we believe that it is worth waiting until we can accumulate enough FEV toxin to reach our 0.001% saturation at a 99.5% extermination level goal. And FEV Curling 13 production levels show that we'll reach our release goal of 250,000 gallons within 6 weeks. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. Our long years of work are nearly at an end. God bless America. So that's the plan to poison everyone not in the enclave? The enclave modified FEV to turn it into a highly toxic poison. So toxic that even exposure to a 0.001% aerosol solution caused death and they experimented with this solution on our tribes people. When was this written? How close are they to getting their 250,000 gallons? How many of our tribes people have they killed? Logging out of Curling's user account and if our science skill is 175% or greater, a new name stands out to us. The name of Vice President D. Bird. We can download State of the Nation. Memo State of the Nation from President Dick Richardson to the Republic of this Great Nation. Subject. The State of the Union address. Fellow Americans, I have been honored to be the steward that will take the American people back to the mainland and reclaim the United States for its own citizens. We will be the first generation free of the mutant threat in over 100 years. It's been a long wait and the work that has made this possible has been difficult. At times it seemed impossible. However through the brave and tireless efforts of our own head of the chemical corps, Dr. Charles Curling, the hour of our salvation is now at hand. Brave, steadfast, blah blah blah. Jeez, does anyone really listen to this stuff? Notes to self. One, go on like this for a bit to cover Curling's project. Two, tell everyone how steadfast, etc. they are, yadayadayada. Be sure to make a plug for re-election. Remember not to hug my intern on the way down from the podium. Important, finish riding this soon. He'll be able to gas those damn mutants any week now if Curling's report is correct. So the president of the enclave is Dick Richardson. And it looks like the enclave does indeed have elections, which must mean there are enclave citizens. So this is not just a military, this is an entire nation. Are they all on this oil rig? Or are they spread across the globe? Next, from within Vice President D. Byrd's account, we can download a word list. Memo, word list, from Vice President Daniel Byrd. To me, subject, my word list. Difficult words. Potato, tomato, psycho, California, to be prepared, verbosity, inarticulate, and subtle. To make this the new national mascot. Is this an American creature? Oh dear, sounds like we're dealing with an idiot here. This Vice Presidential word list is actually another real world reference, but we'll wait until we meet him to get into that. From this room, we find two paths. A hallway to the east and a hallway to the south. We'll start by exploring to the east. We have to pass through a number of doors. We can stop to appreciate the new animation. And on the other side of the second door, we arrive at an exit grid, passing through. We find a turret that immediately turns hostile and kills SkyNet. Oh no, SkyNet. This alerts the entire base and enclave soldiers and citizens come out of the nearby rooms to attack. Which, of course, makes sense. I mean, yeah, we're in enclave power armor, but we are accompanied by a talking death claw and AI Robobrain, a tribal and a bartender. It's almost like a bad joke. All we need is the bar. Perhaps this is inevitable. And perhaps we need the experience. If so, it is possible to get through this fight, but it's not the only one. We find enclave soldiers on every level of the enclave oil rig. But if we don't want to fight through them, there is another option. We can simply leave our companions in this room. If we pass through the exit grid alone, while wearing the suit of enclave power armor, the enclave think that we are one of them. In this way, we can explore without being attacked. And this is important if we want to walk away with the whole story because it gives us the opportunity to talk with certain people. Moving south down the hallway, we can enter the first room to the right. Our left? Where we find a number of soldiers. Do you have clearance for this section? One says? Or do I clear the other says? Interesting that they wear T-51B. Perhaps the advanced power armor suits are pretty rare. In this room, we find a number of boxes, most of which are empty. But we do find some stuff. In one, we find two super-stimpacks. In another, we find a big book of science. And in another, we find two first aid kits. Nearby, we find a person in a vault suit. It doesn't just look like he's wearing a vault suit. The game says that he's a person in a vault suit. But uniquely, it has no number. Might as well rest a bit, he says. These are the enclave citizens. Not soldiers. The ones who apparently make up their nation who vote for presidents. At the end of this room, we find two lockers and a desk. One locker has grenades. Another has a super-sledge. And the desk has a combat knife and a copy of guns and bullets. Moving out of this room back to the hallway, we can take the first door to the south. Inside, we find two more soldiers. No loitering one says. In the desk, we find a stimpack. Having out and continuing down the hallway, we can take the first door to the right, which leads us to a rec room to the south. We see a scientist and a couple of people standing around. Oddly enough, neither of the Nukukula machines work. My next shift isn't for a few hours yet. We can access both of the pool tables, but there's nothing in either of them. The weather's always the same here. I'm sure glad I'm not on the mainland. The project is proceeding well, says the scientists. We find a door to a supply closet to the east. Inside the boxes we find one mute fruit, some booze, some beer, and more mute fruit. Moving out of the rec room to the hallway, the hallway turns north and ends at a door. This leads to a barracks. Passing through the barracks for now, we can open a door to the west. This is the enclave exercise facility. Get back to work, say the soldiers. God bless America, say the citizens. There is nothing else in the exercise room, but it opens to the bathrooms and showers through a door to the northeast. Even though we can inspect all of the sinks, there's nothing in them. But these rooms explored and found to be empty we can head back to the barracks. We find an enclave soldier standing before each bunk bed. Section 7 clear. Bravo team, reporting in. And a number of lockers between them all. Alright, here we go. First one's empty. Second one has a grenade. Third one's empty. Fourth one has Gauss rifle or pistol ammunition. Next one has a super stem pack and two stem packs. And the next two have even more 2mm EC ammunition for the Gauss weapons. Jody is home now, smoking grass. Jody's pumping your wife's gas at the gas station to fill up your car. Is that a song or a poem or a wolf? Maybe the beginning of a joke? I don't care. Moving out of the next one, we've got even more Gauss ammunition. And the final one has yet more Gauss ammunition. Holy cow. We can move to the southern side of the room. Keep on keeping on. Here we find more lockers. One has an electronic lock pick and even more 2mm EC ammunition. Stop stomping those grapes. This is a reference to a song by Mel Tillis and the state ciders aptly named Stomptom grapes. The next one is empty. What are you looking at? The next one has 3 stem packs. The next one is empty. The next last one has a baton and the final one has a laser pistol. Corde or clear. From here we can pass through a door to the room to the north. Alright, who's smacking gum at the headset? Gamma team reporting in. Level 2, all clear. This room is empty but we can pass through a door to the east to arrive at an armory. We see some of those big robots in their charging pods. We'll do our best not to anger them. And going through these lockers starting from left to right, we find two plastic explosives and a suit of T51B power armor. That's our third free suit. And the next one we find small energy cells and microfusion cells. The third one, a whole bunch of explosives. Then between these rows of lockers we find a bunch of ammo crates. In one, two rocket launchers. In the next, two more rocket launchers. And in the last one, two more rocket launchers. Then moving to the next row of lockers, we find 5mm ammunition, regular and armor piercing, three rockets, two more plastic explosives and four armor piercing rockets. Then we find another row of ammo crates. And the first we find an Avenger minigun. In the next one we find a laser rifle. And in the last one we find a plasma rifle. When downloading we can move back to the barracks and pass through a door to the east. Here we find some civilian bedrooms. I wonder what the safety movie is tonight. They all say. In one of the desks we find a flower. And the next one we find a stack of money. The others are all empty. From here we can pass through a door to the south. To arrive at what must be one of the officers bedrooms. In the foot locker at the end of one we find more explosives. And in a foot locker at the end of the other, we find more microfusion and small energy cells and a plasma pistol. From here we can open a door to the west which leads to a large storage room. And these boxes do contain goods. Here's everything we can walk away with. Two combat knives. Three clubs. One brass knuckles. One crowbar. Two copies of Dean's electronics. Six throwing knives. Two first aid manuals. And two scout manuals. I get the impression that this is a store of goods that they've stolen from the people they've kidnapped and killed. Going back to the officers barracks we can open a door to the south to find their bathroom. But it's empty. And this comes to a dead end. To continue we have to retrace our steps back through all of the barracks to the main barracks. We find a door against the southern wall right next to the hallway that we used to first enter it. Taking this all the way to the south, we arrive in another room with more soldiers and robots. Who goes there? Hollow deck clear. Hollow deck. This isn't Star Trek. In the desk we find some psycho. And in the clay pot next to the desk we find a copy of guns and bullets. In the eastern wall we find a door. This leads to a room with the machine gun turret and a barricaded door to the south. You see a sturdy blast door. It seems to meld into the floor and ceiling. We find no way in which to open the door. And then we remember Tom Murray's notice. This must be part of their emergency evacuation system. It must be one of the doors that unlocks in case the generator fails. Which means we can't access it now. We've got to shut the power off first. Therefore the barracks are a dead end. To continue we have to retrace our steps and go back into the entry room. We can drop off our stuff with our companions. We sure picked up a lot in there. And next go through the door to the south. This leads to a staircase going down. We appear at the end of a short hallway. Guarded by a turret. Good thing we didn't bring our companions down here. For now our disguise holds. Opening the door at the end we arrive in another room with more soldiers and robots. Shines the name, shines the name, shines the name of Roger Young. This is an excerpt from the Ballad of Roger Young by Frank Lesser, performed here by the Four Lads. But in every soldier's heart it all be in the tree. Shines the name, shines the name of Roger Young. The song was written in honor of Private Roger Young who received the Medal of Honor during World War II. While with his patrol, on the island of New Georgia within the Solomon Islands, he and his patrol came under fire by Japanese soldiers. Two of his unit immediately died and young himself was wounded. After two more died, young's patrol commander ordered a retreat. Instead of obeying his lieutenant, Roger Young alone began to creep towards the Japanese position. He drew their machine gun fire. And even though he was wounded again, he began to add to the machine gun fire with rifle fire and through a number of grenades. He was eventually killed by the Japanese. But this distraction gave his platoon enough time to withdraw without any further casualties. That's why he was awarded the Medal of Honor. There is a box in the northeastern corner inside we find a combat knife. In the desk in the middle of the room we find a copy of guns and bullets. And then opening the door to the northwest, we find another armory. In these lockers we find grenades, 5mm ammunition, more grenades, 4.7mm caseloise ammunition, and some 2mm EC ammo. Then in the ammo crate on the ground, we find another Avenger mini gun, and in the next one we find a Vindicator mini gun, a rare weapon which we talked about in my video on San Francisco Chinatown. It's worth a bundle too. Moving out of the armory, we can leave this large room through the door to the south. We enter a hallway moving west for now, we can go north into a computer room. Here we find a number of terminals, but these terminals have all of the same information that we found at the terminal at the entrance to the oil rig. In the back we find a desk with mute fruit inside. Moving out and following the hallway to the east, we arrive at a split. The hallway continues east, we see a door to the north, and a doorway to the south. We'll go through the door to the north first, this just leads to a big empty room. There's nothing here, no containers beds, no idea what this room is for. Next we'll try exploring east. At the end of this hallway we open a door which leads into another small room, from which we can pass through doors to the east, west, and north. Moving west for now leads to a medical room with a bunch of medical beds, and a locker we find some antidote. In the next we find some stempacks, and in another we find some radoway. It's a shame about Vice President Bird's as one of the civilians. Yes, and after reading his word list, we can understand what she's talking about. Heading out of the room with all the stretchers, we can open the door to the north. We arrive in a room with an operating table, covered in blood. Only one of the rooms where the scientists experimented on our tribes people, go away, I'm busy they say. Bugger off! There's nothing else here, so backing out we can open the door to the east. This appears to be one of the scientists' quarters. They're not very friendly. In the bookshelf we find that deans electronics into first aid manuals. The door in the eastern wall leads to another bathroom, but this bathroom is empty. And that's it. So to continue, we can retrace our steps all the way down the hallway, and this time go through the big open door to the south. We find four soldiers standing here, Bravo team reporting in, Gamma team reporting in, moving west for now, we find a bunch of suspension tanks attached to power distributors. The scientists here aren't very friendly. What the hell do you want? Go past her someone else. We find another surgical table with more human gore, and at the very back we find another terminal. Jacksis is the exact same network. Strangely enough, the second terminal here is non-functional. Backing out of the lab, we pass a door to the south to find a bunch of cells, and on the other side of the force fields, we find our tribe's people. In the first cell, we see a very familiar face. Chosen one, how did you get here? I've come to rescue you. Careful. Do not touch the door. I think the machine that feeds it has been either us. Destroy it so we may escape. How did you get here? I have a ship. If you destroy the machine, we will find the ship. Hurry, there are not many of us left. What happened? Men came to our village in flying machines and took us. There were others too, from the Holy 13. I thought we were saved. I thought we were going to heaven. And then? Then they brought us here to hell. They have killed most of us with something they call FVV. They will kill us all before they are through. Do you know what must be done, Chosen One? FVV? That is what they call it. They stick needles into our skin like stem packs. But then terrible things happen. Then? Then what? Then? The skin bubbles like maggots beneath it. Boyles grow and burst. Blood runs from your ears and your tongue swells. Those who are lucky, choke to death. Those who are not, they'll pay. You must destroy the machine and kill the devils in this place. We will meet you outside. And Chosen One, if you have not found the gek, seek it here. Our freedom is nothing if we cannot save our village. Now go. So she wants us to destroy the machine that operates the force fields, which must be the same computer that control the reactor we read about. Moving to the other side, we find the Vault 13 residents. Hello there, says the man on the other side of the force field. I'm Martin Frobysher. I speak for these people. Thank God you're here. Are you the overseer we can ask? We don't use that term anymore, he says. There used to be an overseer many years ago, but he did a bad thing. And many of our people left the Vault only to die in the wastes, I'm sure. He was tried and sentenced to death for his crime. We haven't used the title since. And the Chosen One can say I don't blame you. I understand that an overseer kicked my ancestor, the Vaultweller, out into the wastes. The Vaultweller, he says. How long ago was that? Say about 80 years perhaps? Yes, we can say. It was 80 years ago. How did you know that? And he says 80 years ago, a hero saved our Vault and then the overseer exiled him. Others followed him into exile and they were never heard from again. We remember the event with shame. Hey, we can say you're talking about my ancestor and the people who founded my village. They all came from the Vault of the Holy 13. And he says incredible. That's our Vault. Once again, the people of the Vault must rely upon this time, the great grandson of the Vaultweller to save us. I wish to know how to save you, we can say. And he says to turn off these force fields, I think you're going to have to turn off the main power supply. How the heck am I going to manage that, we can say? And he says I've been listening and I think that the power reactor is controlled by a large computer three levels below us. If you manage to blow that up, it should turn off the power and we can go free. Great idea we can say, but I don't know how I can blow up the reactor. I don't have any explosives. And he says I'm sure that wherever the guards have their barracks, that they must have an arsenal. They'll have explosives there, I'm sure of it. Good idea we can say. I can get the explosives and use them to blow up the computer, then you can run topside to my ship. I'll be right behind you. Thank you he says, Godspeed and good luck to you friend. Thanks we can say, but let me ask you something first. What are you people doing here we can ask? And he says they're using us to test some sort of antidote for a fatal virus. What kind of virus we can ask? And he says they call it the FEV toxin. It does horrible things to people before it kills them. The only good thing about it is that it kills them so quickly. Sure looks painful though. That sounds nasty says the chosen one. Why are they using your people for a test? And he says they took us all from our vault because they wanted test subjects for the antidote. They needed people from outside the enclave and who were still pure strain humans. So they took us. They took you? How? From where? And he says they came to the front door of the vault. Somehow they already knew the secret code. They just opened the door. And their armor troopers marched us into vertebrates and flew us here. Then the experiments began and he is shutters. The vault asks the chosen one if we haven't gotten this information already. Which vault are you from? And he says why Vault 13 of course? I went there looking for a geck we can say. And he says a geck? We must have a couple of them. You're welcome to one. I think I saw some troopers loading one of our gecks into a vertebrate. That's right. We remember reading in a previous episode that each vault was supposed to have two gecks. The enclave must have overlooked the one that we have already retrieved from Vault 13. The chosen one can say you saw them load a geck? Do you know where they put it? And he says I don't know exactly where they put it. But I did hear them say that they were going to leave it in the barrier level. Just below this level I think. Well nice to meet you Martin. We can say. But I've got people to free. Goodbye. And he says yes I'd hope that's why you were here. You've got to free us. Of course we can say I wouldn't let anyone stay trapped in this place. Goodbye says Martin. And good luck to you. I've got a feeling I'll need it we can say. Goodbye. Again, directions to destroy the computers. Three levels down. But also we learned that there's another geck here in the room directly below this one. Most of the Vault 13 residents are too far away from the force fields to talk with us. But we can speak with a few. You know what to do. So go do it. They say. Oddly enough as when you're the end of this corridor everyone in prison begins to shout out. Get us out of here. No more needles. No more. First drought. And now this. This isn't our vault at all. They can't keep us here forever. How did we offend these evil spirits? Let my people go. Where's Martin? Free us. I can take it. The walls are closing in on me. Hello? Hello? Where are the spirits when you need them? No more medicine. I can't take it anymore. Elder guide us. Spirits protect us. I insist upon being freed. Oh, okay. Well if you insist. If we try to open the door at the end of the hallway we see that it's blocked off. Our only way forward is to retrace our steps and go through the southern door to take this staircase down a level. We arrive at the end of another long hallway. At the end we arrived in a room locked up with three doors. Nearby we find a terminal. But before we can activate it. The electrified floor discharges and we were hit for nine points of damage. Oh no. The floor is electrified. We can try to access this terminal. Oh great. No way back. But the doors to either side open up. As we move from room to room we continue to get electrified by the floor. If at any point we try to access one of the doors directly we get hit for a huge jolt of electricity. It's a puzzle. We've got to figure out the right combination to access these terminals to open the doors to allow us to get out. This is one of those puzzles where given enough time we can just fiddle with the terminals and eventually find our way out. But we are taking damage the entire time we're trying to solve this puzzle. And as we heal ourself we're consuming Stimpacts. Stimpacts we might need for later. If we manage to access the second room in the third column of rooms we find a hall by leading to another room. Walking through the door. Oh hey fellas. Everybody having a good day? Hope so. Returning to duty station. Sector 7 clear. They haven't seen through our disguise so we might as well explore these containers. We find two lockers against the wall and one a plasma rifle and the other a flamer. There are three lockers on the ground and one some Stimpacts. In the next one more 5mm ammunition and in the final one even more 5mm ammunition. A door against the northern wall leads to another armory. In one of the lockers we find a geck. Hey it's the second geck. I guess we can make a rollo even better. We also find a paramedics bag and a field medic first aid kit. And the next locker. Oh we find a huge cam and medicine stash as well as some vault 13 canteens. Three rad X, three scouts manuals, two first aid books, two guygaard counters, three antidote, three rad away, two regular first aid kits and three Stimpacts. And that's it for the armory. Heading back to the maze we can again get lost in this labyrinth of electrified rooms. If we manage to make our way to the second room in the first column we find another hallway this time leading west and this brings us. Oh hey guys just me another enclave soldier. By this time I thought I had exhausted all enclave soldier fluk dialogue but now I found a new one. Sound off one two three four bring it on down. Uh four three two what? We find even more lockers and a foot locker on the ground we find two super Stimpacts and in the first locker next to it we find five millimeter ammunition and a suit of advanced power armor mark two. This is a superior version of the enclave armor that we already have. It's the only one in the game. It grants us an AC bonus of 35 compared to 30 plus 75 radiation resistance compared to plus 60 in ways five pounds more 50 compared to 45 has a DR of 60 and DT of 18 compared to the Mark 1's DR of 55 and DT of 15 and a superior electrical DR 65 compared to 60 better explosive DR 70 compared to 65 and superior plasma DT 18 compared to 15 and the next locker we find small energy cells and in the final one some micro fusion cells then there are two ammo canisters against the northern wall inside when we find two Gauss rifles hey that's my endgame weapon I didn't buy wouldn't San Francisco because I wanted to get a free one and we get two thank you on clave we'll take one and give the other to Cassidy if I can ever make it back to him and then in the next demo crate we find a huge stack of 200 two millimeter EC ammunition and the final one we find a gatling laser another weapon I covered in my video on Chinatown once this room is alluded we can head east to try to find our way out of this maze if we take too long if we don't heal ourselves in time and if we run out of Stimpaks we can die the solution to this maze goes as follows these rooms are aligned in a three by three grid that's nine rooms with nine terminals total we can number them like this one through nine starting at the beginning to get out while also looting both armories we activate the terminal in a room number two then go to room number one and activate the terminal then go to room number four and activate the terminal that opens the doors to both side areas we can loot one then loot the other when both rooms are looted to get out we go to room number six and use the terminal there then we go back to room number two and activate two three one seven eight and finally nine that opens the final door allowing us to escape if we don't have the gat from Vault 13 with us and we didn't loot the gat from the armory room here then as we leave the chosen one reminds himself i nearly forgot the gat i wonder if one might be somewhere around here but if we do have a gat we can head out of this small room turn right and take another staircase down we arrive on a brand new floor and i hate to do this i really do but i'm all out of time we'll pick up right here and continue exploring the enclave oil rig in my next episode i publish new Fallout videos each and every week on my channel so if you don't want to miss the next one be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button if you have and you still feel like you're missing out on youtube notifications consider following me on twitter at oxhorn i update twitter manually with every new piece of content that i publish i've got a brand new shirt in the shop enclave boaster support for the enclave and everything they stand for with this brand new design this design comes on shirts in a variety of men's women's and children's sizes and in a wider ray of colors you can find it on other products as well like smartphone cases pillows posters mug stickers prints etc so with interest you can find a link in my shop in the description below or you can click here if you like what i do and you want to support me in a more personal way consider becoming a patron on patreon or a member here on youtube but more than anything i'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today thank you so much for watching and i'll see you soon with more brand new videos