Diamond City holds answers, but they're locked tight. You'll ask them what they know, but people's hearts are chained up with fear and suspicion. But you find it. You find that heart that's gonna lead you to your boy. Oh, it's bright, so bright against the dark alleys it walks. In our last episode, we stumbled upon a group called the Brotherhood of Steel at the Cambridge Police Station. We took a quick diversion from our task to help the Brotherhood recover a deep-range transmitter from nearby arc-gent systems, which they're hoping to use to regain contact with Scabberd, their superiors, back in the Capitol wastelands. The leader of the squad, Paladin Dance, invited us to join the Brotherhood. But we weren't quite ready to make allegiances just yet, and after all, we already had a mission. We got some good gear, but then we headed south to make our way towards Diamond City, our best bet at finding Baby Sean. That Diamond City is a long walk from Cambridge. We made our way along some train tracks across bridges and through ruins, encountering numerous enemies along the way. At last we saw a huge green wall loom before us in the distance. Painted on the side of this wall was a diamond, and as we got close, we saw indicators that this must be Diamond City. And of course we recognized this place. This is Fenway Park, Boston's baseball stadium, the home of Boston's own, swatting sultans. As we got close to the main gate, we began to overhear a conversation. What do you mean you can't open the gate? Stop playing around, Danny. I'm standing out in the open here for crying out loud. I got orders not to let you in, Miss Piper. I'm sorry. I'm just doing my job. Ooh, just doing your job. Protecting Diamond City means keeping me out, is that it? Oh, look, it's the scary reporter. I'm sorry, but Mayor McDonough's really steamed, Piper. Saying that article you wrote was all lies. All cities in a tizzy. You open this gate right now, Danny Sullivan. I live here. You can't just lock me out. I am a Danny, open up! I know you're listening, Danny. Open the gate. You. You want into Diamond City, right? What? Who are you? Just traveling through. No, not really. I just got here, but yeah. Shhh. Lay along. What? What's that? You said you're a traitor up from Quincy. You have enough supplies to keep the General Store stocked for a whole month? You hear that, Danny? You're gonna open the gate and let us in? Or are you gonna be the one talking to Crazy Murn about losing out on all the supply? Jeez, alright. I don't need to make a personal Piper. Give me a minute. Better head inside quick before all Danny catches on to the bluff. Ah, this place, Diamond City. What is it? Well, the Green Jewel. She's a sight. Everyone who's anyone in the Commonwealth is from here, settled here, got kicked out of here. In Big Wall, some power, working plumbing, schools, and some security goons are what make Diamond City the big monster it is. Ah, love it or hate it. We'll see for yourself soon enough. Let's go. You first. Wouldn't have it any other way. I don't take orders from you. Whoa, take it easy, yikes. You, uh, come along whenever you're ready. Sounds good. Let's go. Another great day in Diamond City. And with that, this Piper begins to walk into Diamond City as we enter a voice calls out to Piper. Piper, who let you back inside? I told Sullivan to keep that gate shut. You devious, rabble-rousing slenderer. The level of dishonesty in that paper of yours. I'll have that printer scrap from the park. Oh, that estate from Mr. Danna? Tyrant mayor shuts down the press. Why don't we ask the newcomer? You support the news? Because the mayor's threatened to throw free speech in the dumpster. What newspaper are you talking about? Mine. Public occurrences. And we're the hard look at the truth. So are you with us or not? This really isn't any of my business. And those papers just like to stir up trouble. A fair point, sir, but I believe it depends on the reporter. Exposing the truth is one thing. Twisting it is another. Always believed in freedom of the press. Write this, sir. A true medium for the people. Oh, I didn't mean to bring you into this argument, good, sir. No, no, no. You look like Diamond City material. Welcome to the great green jewel of the Commonwealth. Safe, happy, a fine place to come. Spend your money. Settle down. Don't let this muck raker hear. Tell you otherwise. All right? What are you two arguing about anyway? What do you think? Print lies and everybody's happy. But if you print the truth. Whatever. I'm not going to be here long. Another senoeval type. You'll fit in just fine with all the inept guards. I'm sure your city's a great place. Yeah, greatest house of cards in the Commonwealth. Until the wind blows. This hasn't been the friendliest welcome. He's got you there, McDonough. Guess not everyone gets one over by that shark smiley one. No. Was there anything particular you came to our city for? What is this place anyway? Why? This is the safest place in all the Commonwealth. With the strongest community and highest standards of living available. Do we have stores, doctors, schools, power, running water? And the wall. As our sacred protector. You'll learn more about the wall soon. I'm sure. But I was talking about you. Come on now. What brought you all the way out here? Not really your business. That's my business. Oh, whatever you do. You don't bother going to Diamond City Security for help. I've had enough of this, Piper. Just looking for something. Oh, what is it you're looking for? Trying to find someone. Trying to find someone? Who? Who would I talk to about finding a missing person? An infant boy. Kidnapped. Did you say Kidnapped? Well, McDonough, Diamond City Security can investigate this? How about all the other kidnapping reports you've got? Don't listen to her. Well, my son, Sean. He's less than a year old. Wait. Your son's missing? Oh, you hear that, McDonough? What's Diamond City Security doing to help this man, huh? This isn't the first missing person's report to come through here. And now we have an infant who's been taken... Don't listen to her. Well, I'm afraid that our security team can't follow every case that comes through. I'm confident that you can find help here. Diamond City has every conceivable service known to man. One of our great citizens can surely find the time to help you. We'll sure. And a mayor of a great city must know everyone. Who can help me? I'm sorry I don't have time for any more questions. I'm a busy man. Enjoy your stay in our fair city. Or if we pass the charisma check? Well, there is one private citizen. Nick Valentine, a detective of sorts who specializes in tracking people down. Usually for debts or whatnot. No, I have to get going. I'm sorry Diamond City Security doesn't have time to help, but I'm sure Mr. Valentine charges a reasonable fee. I guess we'll see. Great. Thanks for nothing. I hope so. This is ridiculous. Diamond City Security can't spare one officer to help. I want the truth, McDonough. What's the real reason security never investigates it? I've had enough of this, Piper. From now on, consider you and that little sister of yours on notice. Keep talking, McDonough. That's all you're good for. Hmm, a big Diamond City welcome from the mayor. You feel honored yet? Look, I gotta go get settled in, but um, stop on my office later. I have an idea for an article you'd be perfect for. And with that, we begin the quest, story of the century. Go to Piper's office. If we passed the charisma check with Mayor McDonough, we learned about Nick Valentine, a private citizen who may be able to help us. But there are many more ways to learn about this Nick Valentine in Diamond City. Before heading inside, we can explore this entryway. We find guards posted outside the gate and heading through a doorway. We find another guard not wearing a helmet. Hey, hey, what's up? What a day, huh? Welcome to the uh, great green jewel. You'll totally love it here. Don't you have like important things to do? Nothing more to say. There's something off about this guy, but I just can't put my finger on it. Turning around, we find Danny Sullivan. The guard Piper was talking to on the other side of the intercom. So, you're that traitor Piper was talking about. Something tells me she's pulled the wool over my eyes again. Am I right? Piper has done this before? All the time. Thing is, sometimes she's bluffing, and sometimes there really is a group of 50 raiders just over the hill screaming for blood. So, I usually just let her in. Not this time though. Mayor's on the warpath. I was just standing there. Yeah, that's usually the case with Piper. Someone stands there and she talks. I'd be sick of her by now if she weren't so damn fearless. She robs off on you. I didn't mean to lie, officer. It all just happened so fast. Oh, sure it did. Happened so fast you forgot all about basic human decency. Didn't your mother ever teach you to be honest? But if we passed the charisma check? You're not the first guy Piper pulled into a heap of trouble he wasn't ready for. Thanks for being honest. If it were up to me, we would have just let the both of you in. But the mayor's calling the shots, and well, you saw how mad he is. I wasn't lying. I got a whole supply train coming in tomorrow. Oh, of course you do. Now tell me the one about you and the fish they got away. But if we pass this charisma check... Is that right? No bull? Well, that's the case. Let me put it down payment on some parts for the gate. Here you go. Hey, what's brought you into town anyway? Be good to know to down in the logs. And if we pass it, we get 50 caps. What's your take on Diamond City? The safe is what it is. Diamond City's got the best security anywhere. I'd like to think I have a hand in that. But I was asking about you. Come on. Just need to jot the reason you're here down in the logs. Just looking for something. Aren't we all. Now, was there anything particular you were looking for? Not really your business. All right. Sorry I asked. I'm trying to find someone. Is that so? What are you looking for? Not really your business. All right. Sorry I asked. Who would I talk to about finding a missing person? An infant boy. Kidnapped. My boy Sean's been kidnapped. He's just a baby. Oh look, I'm sorry, but we're under orders not to get involved in missing person cases. There's a lot of institute paranoia right now. We can't really risk fanning those flames with official action. What if people panic? The institute? What's that? Hot damn. Look, I really shouldn't have said that. They're just a scapegoat, all right? Something people blame when things go wrong. If you really want to know, there's a whole newspaper inside the city that won't stop talking about them. Public occurrences. How about we do a simple trade? Money for information. Hey, I don't take bribes, okay? No. I'll ask somewhere else then. Chin up. Maybe someone in town can help you? I just need a little information, Danny. We can keep this off the record. I'm sorry, but I can't. I got orders. But if we pass the check? Okay. I can at least point you somewhere. Unefficiently. When you get inside the city, go to the back around the market to an alleyway. There's a couple of bright neon signs. Ballant times detective agency. No one likes going there though, so buyer beware and all that. People don't like the detective agency. Look, all I can tell you is that we hear a lot of complaints. A private eye in the ruins of the ballpark. Makes total sense. Not sure I get what you're driving at. Why don't you just move along? That's all the help you got. Well, that's all you're getting. That's for sure. Now move along. Thanks for your help. Yeah, well, good luck. Stay at a trouble. And again, if we pass the charisma checks, we walk away with more information about Valentine's detective agency. We see an elevator behind Danny. If we take it, it brings us all the way to the top of the stadium. From here, we get a great view of the city. The entire thing is built on the field. We see dozens of huts, homes, stores, restaurants, lots of other shacks, and something smoking in the middle of the ballpark. Prescriptions filled. I already came. That says not to touch it. Look out. Step back, Fred. Everything even here. You read the paper. Dead sets, hiding amongst. The dance has been able to move along. The fun. The fun. The fun. Baby. Baby. Yeah. Yeah. Nearby as a desk, and a smartly dressed lady sits at it. There's no mood to talk about any of this synth nonsense. Unless you're looking for a housing permit, I can't help you. Wait, what was that about synths? Oh no, I'm not saying anything. I like my job. Thank you very much. And you are... Geneva. Geneva. The mayor's secretary. I handle all the day today. I'm looking for work. Mercenary type? We usually have a few open bounties. Just check the wanted boasters in the market. Well, let's hear about the permit. We have one home available. It's in the center of town, right near the market. You can do whatever you like with the interior, and all the tools you need to make your own furnishings are provided at no extra charge. Tell me more about this house. The previous owner bought an adjacent warehouse and knocked down a few walls. So it's bigger than most. Andy left behind his old tools, so you'll have everything you need to modify the inside, however you see fit. Let me think it over. Take all the time you need. I'll pass. Too rich for your blood? Can't blame you. I'd like to, but I'm a bit short. Well, the home isn't going anywhere. Maybe someday. The home she is talking about is, of course, home plate. It doesn't work like a settlement. It's a private player home. I did a video showing off my home plate that you can watch here. But we are not here to go house shopping. We could use the window washing elevator of the balcony to get down, but instead we'll head back to the elevator we came from, sneak past Danny Sullivan, and go through the main gate. Heading forward, we discover Diamond City. So this is the famous Diamond City. I suppose I hope to find one of a gem that a dusty home base. Civilization in the rough is your will. It's me, I'm a Diamond Time the truth. What does he have to hide? It's a red public for the hard question. And if we happen to come in at the same time that Piper dies, we get to witness an interaction between Piper and her kid's sister, Nat. Piper, you're back! Hey, kiddo, how are the paper sails? Well, the presses are getting overloaded. That motor is going to go soon if we felt the place. You've been saying that for weeks and the old girls still keep scranking. Stop worrying so much. I got ahead into the office. When you start whistling if you see any angry politicians coming our way. Why? Is something wrong? Piper. Is May and Macdonald telling the truth? What does he have to hide? Read the public for the hard question. After Piper goes inside public occurrences, we can talk with Nat. Read Piper to newcomers. It's the institute grabs you in the night. At least we warned you. A free paper? Sounds like quality. A paper? Don't need it. Thanks. I guess. I'm serious. The institute tastes people. You should read up if you're sticking around. The institute? You ain't heard of the institute, mister. They snatch people up at the night and no one hears from them again. It's all in the paper. Better read up before they grab you too. Who's gone missing? Drifters, residents, stadiums, seat snobs. Seems every year or so. Someone's gone. And we all know why. So you better be careful in newcomer. The institute is out there. And they'll grab you too. Like I said, it's all in the paper. I'll be fine. Yeah, I've heard that before. Sounds like nonsense to me. Fine. Don't listen to the little girl. Asshole. I believe you. Thanks. You are a real lost lamb in the wolf's den, mister. So what are you doing in Diamond City anyway? What's Diamond City have to offer? A bunch of stores that yell at you if you touch anything. And a mayor that yells at you if you say anything. So it's kind of a do-nothing, say-n-up-night place. So what brought you here anyway? Mind your own business. Fine. Sorry for asking. Geez. Just hoping to find something here. Yeah, you and every scabber in the Commonwealth. So what are you looking for, huh? I came here looking for something. Let me guess. That someone's gone missing, right? That's what I'm telling you. So who is it? That's my business. Have it your way, mister. See ya. A baby boy. He was kidnapped. A baby? Wow. That's a new one. Usually it's adults. You're for Sean. He's my son. Less than a year old. You have a son, mister? Man, you're old. Who would I talk to about finding a missing person? You're a bad luck. No one tries to find missing people in Diamond City. Missing people means the institute is involved. And no one's going to want to get the institute's attention. What's the institute do that's got everyone so scared? You mean besides making the sense and using them to replace people? Or that they live in the shadows and no one knows how to get to them? Everyone in town is afraid of being replaced. Or that someone they know isn't human anymore. So don't expect people around here to jump up and down looking to help you out. What are since? The institute has been making them for years. The old ones are sort of human looking, but you can tell their robots. You see a bunch of them out there in the Commonwealth. I heard they murder whole towns and carry what's left to who knows where. But the real danger isn't the newer models. Since with real flesh and blood and guts and everything. Yes, I'm on my own then. Yeah, you, me, and everyone else in this city. I tried many times to fail this charisma check, even using console commands, and I couldn't. You're a smart kid. Isn't there someone in town who isn't afraid of this institute? Well, there is the detective, Mr. Nick Valentine. He's not afraid of anything. If anyone's gonna help you, it's him. What else do you know about Mr. Valentine? I know all the adults who go there won't admit it. Ain't that the way it is? No one's ever grateful for the people who help out the most. If his business card isn't shaped like a heart, I'm gonna be disappointed. Yeah, I'm definitely sending you to the right place. Good luck, Mr. Is that all you got, kid? Hey, I already gave you a free paper, free advice, and a free recommendation to the detective agency. My charity quota is full. Got me. Fine, I'll ask around somewhere else. Thanks. You were a big help. Remember, the institute's out there newcomer. Watch your back. That is yet another person who can point us to Nick Valentine, if we pass her charisma check. Which we can't fail, apparently. She gave us a free newspaper. We can find it in our inventory, the synthetic truth. October 2287, the synthetic truth by Piper Wright. Noodles. We all eat them. We all love them. And Diamond City's power noodles has supplied this sustenance for the past 15 years. From the still-tid mechanical cadence of Takahashi's program Japanese to the fragrant steam that wafes from each bowl to the scalding tang of each delicious muffful. The ordering and eating of noodles is but one of many shared human experiences. Or is it? I was struck by this very question as I sat at the counter of power noodles last Wednesday night, just after 5 p.m. Enjoying a dinner I had so many times before. That's when I noticed our very own Mera McDonough, tidal up to a stool, and engage in the very same ritual. Rytend extending mouth opening teeth chewing. Yes, eating noodles. The shared experience of almost every Diamond City resident. So it must have also seemed to the residents of Diamond City nearly 60 years ago on an uncharacteristically warm may evening in 22-29 as they sat around this very same counter. But that was before the days of Takahashi and his noodles when the bar served not noodles but ice cold nukakolas, frothy beers and stiff shots of whiskey. The barman's name was Henry, and that night he facilitated the shared human experiences of drinking, smoking, talking, and laughing. That is, until tragedy struck. There aren't many among us who are even old enough to remember that evening, although some of the city's ghoul residents certainly could have had been up enforceably removed thanks to Mera McDonough's anti-goul decree of 2282. But there is one person among us who does remember, distinctly, the events of that evening. Respected matriarch Eustace Hawthorn, who recounted her story in a public occurrence's exclusive interview. Oh, I was there alright, sitting right at the bar. Sure as you're sitting in front of me now. Twenty two years old or so, and just looking to have a good time. I was safe behind the wall. We all were. So what was the harm? And let me tell you that Mr. Kata made it easy. He came into town earlier that day, said he was from out west somewhere. It didn't really matter. What did matter was his smile and his laugh, and the way he'd make everyone feel at ease. That night at the bar, we all just sort of crowded around him. Everyone wanted to exchange a word, or hear about the state of the Commonwealth, and Mr. Kata, he was all too happy to oblige. It was just so wonderful, until it wasn't. Eustace continued her account of that evening, and the moment when things turned sinister, and the truth about Mr. Carter was revealed. We'd been drinking and carrying on. Must have been three hours. Mr. Kata had four or five drinks in that time. He seemed a bit drunk, I guess, like the rest of us. Then something just sort of happened. He was smiling, but the smile sort of went from his face, all in an instant. And then his cheeks started twitching kind of funny. And I remember watching him clear as if it happened just yesterday. He reached inside his coat, took out a revolver, and then blamed him. He shot Henry, the barman, right in the head. Didn't hesitate. Didn't show any emotion. Mr. Kata killed Henry as casually as if he were paying him for a drink. But his cheek never did stop twitching. Let me tell you, all hell broke loose after that. What Eustace is describing is, of course, the infamous event known as the Broken Mask, when the people of the Commonwealth learned for the first time that the Institute, the shadowy scientific organization responsible for the creation of combat androids, had actually succeeded in creating a model so advanced it could effortlessly infiltrate human society. And when benounced to the people of Diamond City, the Institute had somehow evolved their androids into true synthetic humans. Since, after he shot Henry, that Mr. Kata shot three or four other people too. And then, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole world, the whole And the metal... this was one of them early synths, you see, and we realized it wasn't a man at all, it was then we all knew The Institute wasn't just out there, the Institute was everywhere now among us It was never determined precisely why the synth known as Mr. Carter went on his killing spree Some suggested he had somehow been remotely controlled by the Institute who wanted to test his combat effect of him still others felt he had simply malfunctioned. A hypothesis supported by the twitching cheek and was never meant to kill anyone. But at the time, the Huai hardly seemed important. What mattered was that the humans of the Commonwealth had been truly infiltrated by an organization whose intentions and motives were, and still are, a complete mystery. Using a model of synth even less advanced than the ones the institute has in service today. Which brings us back to noodles. Specifically, the noodles consumed by Mayor MacDonna last Wednesday night in the same spot that Mr. Carter the synth went haywire. And mercilessly killed several people after spending hours sharing an experience that people of Diamond City assumed was reserved for the members of the human world. Of the human race. They were wrong. Are we? Whoa! Piper! Laying the drama on thick there. I couldn't tell if I was reading a newspaper or one of them tabloid paperback murder cereals. But now we begin to understand a bit why the people of Diamond City are so jumpy about synths and about the institute. Before heading into public occurrences, we can chat with some of the people here in Diamond City. Maybe they can point us to someone who can help us find Sean. Just outside public occurrences is the church, led by pastor Clemens. Favorite Plants on Clidestiff? What do you mean by that? Well, folks are already plenty scared of the institute. But that doesn't stop the paper from talking about them every chance they get. Look, I'm just walking through. Fair enough. Just warning you, when the paper talks about the institute, folks get jumpy. This place is all kinds of strange. I guess we are a little different. Most settlements in the Commonwealth don't have people yelling at the top of their lungs about the institute. Quite a show. Hey, when they bring up the institute. Hey, like folks aren't already scared of them. Anyway, don't let it get to you. Life here is still a hell of a lot safer than out there in the Commonwealth. The screaming paper girl says otherwise. I guess she does. What's the institute? Ever heard of the boogeyman? Shatter we monster that takes people in the night? Well, that's the institute. But there's just a fact of life around here. Someone gets taken by the institute or gets killed by a reader. Which is worse. At least inside these walls, you don't have to worry about the reader. With everything I've been through, nothing scares me. That right. I'll be fine. Thanks. Welcome. So what brings you to the great green jewel? What brought you? Came on this place a while back. Didn't intend to stay at first, but I felt something here. A good feeling. People here are searching for something more than just getting by. They built a school, shops, the power plant, and even this channel. What about you? What brings you here? Keeping my reasons to myself. Didn't mean to pry. You have a good one. I'm looking around for something. Are we all, son? But I'm guessing you're looking for something more specific? Looking for someone who's gone missing. Gone missing. Who is it? Friend? Relative? That's not your business. All right. I'm sorry. You have a good one. A baby boy. Kidnapped. A baby boy? Really? My son was kidnapped. His name is Sean. Your boy is gone missing? That's terrible. Who would I talk to about finding a missing person? I am afraid missing people don't get found in Diamond City. God seems to have turned a blind eye to them. They saw the fear of the Institute and people's hearts. They've turned a blind eye as well. Are people really that scared of the Institute? Well, they built the synths. And instead of stepping back and solemnly pondering if machines could have souls, they went straight to replacing people with them. Folks are afraid of going to bed at night. Wondering if the Institute is going to switch them with a double. Or if the loved one they went to sleep next to is going to be different when they wake up. Why replace people with synths? What are they? Well, at first they were machines. The early models still roam the Commonwealth. Sometimes they destroy a whole town and take what's left somewhere only God knows. But now the Institute makes sense that have real hair, skin, and organs. They can make them look like anyone. And you can imagine what kind of power that could bring. Honestly, I don't recommend thinking about it. Nothing you can do about the Institute. No one knows where they are anyway. I guess it's time to look somewhere else. Sorry I couldn't help you. It's hopeless. You're not alone. A lot of people in this city have lost to loved ones. The weight of all those missing have broken their spirits. Don't let that happen to you. And this was another charisma check that I couldn't fail. I'm lost, Pastor. I need help. Please. Well, I don't want to get your hopes up. But there is someone who might be able to help. Nick Valentine. He's a detective. Say the lot of lives over the years. But so many more stay missing. And trouble has a habit of sticking to him. Nick Valentine, huh? What's his story? You know the story of the good Samaritan. Helps a man, even though he has no reason to. Well, I suppose you could say that Nick Valentine is living that parable out. Trouble sticks to me too. I blame industrial strength of Hoxie. I suppose a sense of humor is a sign of resilience. So whatever you need to give by, take care now. I hope Nick can help you. That really all you can do for me? I understand if you're upset. But trust me. Nick Valentine's never giving up on helping people. That's saying a lot in the commonwealth. Thanks. I'll go talk to him. Take care of yourself now. Pastor Clements is another person who can point us towards this Nick Valentine. Moving past public occurrences for now, we discover the Diamond City market. This is where that power noodles must be, where the broken mask incident happened 60 years ago. There are a number of shops here, but not everyone can help us find Sean. We'll talk with the residents who can and any others who might improve our knowledge of the institute and its synths. Now I should note here that the game is designed for us to access only one of these conversations. Once we talk with Emergent and we learn about Nick Valentine, our option to ask about Sean, or a missing person, disappears from the dialogue trees of these other merchants. Therefore, some of the dialogue between the merchants is similar or completely shared, but I wanted to include it all so that we can paint a fuller picture of what Diamond City knows of the institute and exactly how paranoid these people are. We'll start with John the Barber. Anyone is one of those things. It's that secretary of his, her and her perfect hair. The mayor's secretary, come on, I caught her hair myself and I know human hair. That's just it, Johnny. You wouldn't be able to tell the difference. If you're Nick Macdonough with your razor, he bleed. Don't mean nothing. Around here we call your haircut the SCAB special, little flex of blood. Give it the personal touch. You should think about getting a trip. My son is missing. Who around here can help me? Hey, I just cut hair. All right? Talk is one thing. But if the paper's right about the institute, then getting involved in missing people is something I don't want. What's wrong? What's the institute? You serious? They're the ones that make the sense. The machine people? If they don't like you, boom, you get replaced. Or maybe someone you know is the one who gets replaced instead and they send him to kill you. So I'm sorry, but I ain't risking the institute being involved in whatever mess you're in. These scents? What are they? They say some of them look so human. You'd never be able to tell the difference. Not sure I believe that, but who knows? A lot of them are definitely machines, though. And they're murderous. Kill off whole towns, take all the remains to somewhere. University Point used to be a nice little settlement. Now? It's all sense. Just stand in guard like a damn warning message or something. And with that, we get the map marker for University Point added to our Pip Boy. I have already done a video about University Point that you can watch here. Huh. Never mind. You have a good day now. We have two ways to get information from John. We could bribe him. I'm more than happy to pay for your time. Just talk to me. Well, I guess it can't hurt to just point you somewhere. And this is the first opportunity we get to learn about Nick Valentine without passing a charisma check. Or we could try the charisma route. And just like everyone else in the marketplace so far, we can't fail this charisma check. I'm not asking you to stick your neck out. Just point me in a direction. Yeah. Ah, alright. I can do that. You want Valentine's Detective Agency. It's in the back alley. A lot of bright signs. Just don't tell anyone you're going there, alright? People don't like that place. Talk about shutting it down all the time. People don't like the Detective Agency? Why? Look, if you ask me, Valentine is a good guy. It saved a lot of lives. But other people think he's just gonna bring the Institute's attention. Ah, yes. Godship. My one weakness. Hey, it was just some friendly advice, okay? I don't appreciate people telling me what to do. Hey, hey, easy. I gave you directions. Everything's cool now, okay? Thanks for your help. You'll be careful, okay? Institutes out there. Next, we can move on over to this guy, wielding a baseball bat. When the game, by a swatta, you there. You need a genuine authentic custom made hickory swatta. My son's been kidnapped. Is there anyone here who can help me? Well, listen there, uh... The paper's right about the... Institute. Even if there's no way I'm getting involved in anyone else's problems. You're afraid of the Institute? Who are they? What? Never seeing a handy work walking all over the Commonwealth? Those same things. Machines? Trying to look like people? Hi, I'm Ygg. About being replaced by a synth duplicate. I haven't someone who I thought was human. Suddenly pull out a gun and strike me out. So take your trouble somewhere else. I don't care if you say the institute's not involved. They might be. Hey, that's enough. So these synths replaced people? How? I love I know. At one day, someone's a human. Next day, they're a synth and no one can tell the difference. Not until they kill someone for no reason. It was bad enough when the older robot looking synths were occasionally grinded a town down to a pulp and hauled off what was left. University Point was the last loser in that game. Nothing there but synths now. And here again, we get University Point added to our Pip Boy. Fine, forget it. Show. Like with John, we have two ways to get information from Mo. We could bribe him. You're a businessman. How about we make a trade? Well, sales have been down this month. All right. Or we could pass a charisma check. And I couldn't fail this one either. I'm not trying to get you in trouble. Just point me in a direction and I'll be on my way. Fine. I'll help you out just this once. Head to the alley behind the market and look for the neon signs, Valentine's Detective Agency. And if you smile, you won't go blabbing that around. That place is mud in a lot of people's eyes. What's everyone's problem with the detective agency? Look, if you ask me, Valentine is a good guy. He's saved a lot of lives. But other people think he's just going to bring the institute's attention. Oh, yes. Gossip. The noisy killer. Hey, you might not care, but I have to talk to these people every day. Oh, no, whatever. Just buy something next time already. Save the warnings for someone who cares. Fine. It's the big shot. Never mind. I'll be careful. Thanks. Yeah, just buy something next time, all right? Oh, man, you got a robot, Baba? I want a robot, Baba. Next, we can move to the weapon merchant and have a chat with Arturo. It's the new guy. And that's you, right? The new guy? Word kind of travels fast in Diamond City. What can I say? Names Arturo Rodriguez. If you need protection, let's talk. Depends on who's asking. Names Arturo. I sell protection if you're looking to buy. Got me mistaken for something else. Mistaken? Ha. Okay. Whatever. Well, my name's Arturo. And I sell protection if you're here to buy. Yeah. I'm the new guy. Well, it's good to have you here. Names Arturo Rodriguez. If you need protection, let's talk. My son's missing. Is there anyone in town who can help? Um, look. I want to take care of my customers. But with all that talk about the institute and the papers, I just can't get involved in someone else's problems. Okay. What's this institute everyone keeps talking about? You don't know. They make the synths. Those machines that look like people, they say if you're not careful, you'll get replaced by a synth double. Or maybe they'll just send someone you thought was human to kill you. So you understand? I can't just stick my foot into other people's business. Sorry. But what if the institute is involved? Wait. What was that about since? I said, they're machines that look like humans. Some of them you can't even tell the difference. And if that wasn't bad enough, the ones that do look like robots just go around killing whole towns off, collecting what's left for God knows what. I hear University Point got hit a while back. Nothing there but the synths now. And again, we get University Point added to our Pip-Boy. Fine. I'll ask somewhere else. Sorry again. Like with John and Mo, we can bribe him. What if I made it worth your while? Nah. Look. Put the money away. I'll... I'll help you. But he doesn't take the money. Or we could pass a charisma check. Arturo, right? I'm just asking for information. That's all. Okay. There's someone who might be able to help. The alley behind the market. There's a detective agency, Valentine's. You'll see the signs. But don't tell anyone you're going there, okay? Folks don't like that place. Surprise that the season's still open. Why don't people like the detective agency? Look. If you ask me, Valentine is a good guy. Saved a lot of lives. But other people think he's just going to bring the Institute's attention. Oh no. Gossip. My only weakness. Yeah, well... some of us live here, alright? People don't like me going there. That's their problem. It was just a friendly warning. Some of us live here, okay? Anyway. Good luck finding your kid. Thanks, Arturo. Yeah. Well... good luck. Hope you find your kid. Then we can try talking with... Merna over here. You? I don't know you. Just keep your distance. Why? Because I don't know you. And I will not serve a synth pretending to be human. One statue of David Impression coming up. Good. Good. Now just to answer me one simple question. Are you human? Because I will not serve a synth. Whoa. You're acting all kinds of crazy. I am not crazy. I read the paper. I know the synths are here walking among us. Keep calm. I'm standing still. That's exactly what a synth would say. But... I don't know. Are you really a human? Synth? What's a synth? A synth as in synthetic person. Those things the institute makes. Why would you think I'm a synth? Why wouldn't I? A synth looks just like a person. With hair and sweat and blood and everything. So are you human or not? No. I'm jangles. The moon monkey. That's just what a synth would do. Ducking the question. We don't serve your kind here. And what that she wants serve us? We can try talking to her again. Merna. I said we don't serve your kind here, you synth. Trying to tell me you're human now? No. Not human at all. I knew it. Get away from my stall, you synth. We don't serve you things here. Well, we can talk with her again. The notice that now, our option to tell her that we're human, is yellow. We now have to pass a charisma check to convince her that we're human. However, I couldn't actually fail this charisma check. Human is the day I was born. Well, we do look human enough. But I'll be watching you. I have eyes like a... Well, they're good eyes. Got it? All right. We can do business, but no funny stuff. Well, that we unlock her as a merchant, but she doesn't actually tell us anything about Nick Valentine. Or anyone else who can help us. I include Merna because she's a great example of what Institute Paranoia has done to the people of Diamond City. Next, we can move to the center of the marketplace, where all that smoke was coming from. Here we find Power Noodles, manned by Takahashi. What are you doing? Do yourself a favor and just say yes. It's all he understands. What are you saying? What are you saying? Tell me a joke. What are you saying? No thanks. Yes? And with that, we can buy some of these famous Power Noodles that we read about. Nani Shimonashika, roughly translated means, what is it? There is one more person I want to talk to. She doesn't tell us about the detective, but she does have an experience with synths. Or at least she thinks she does. Heading downstairs, we can enter Fallon's basement. And then move forward to Becky, behind the counter. Uh, hello. Have you been here before? What's it matter? Because Fallon's isn't a charity. The clothes of a seal if you have the money. No lifting. All right? Might have. Don't be cute. First things first, this isn't a charity. You want the clothes? Pay for them. Nope. First time. Thought so. Some ground rules. This isn't a charity. Close a for sale if you have the money. Otherwise, the door is right there. Yeah, plenty of times. Really? Okay. I just need to remind you that Fallon's isn't a charity. If you want the clothes, you have to pay for them. You have some kind of problem with shoplifters? Nothing me and my 10 gauge haven't been able to handle. People are stealing these clothes? Seriously? Yes, they are. So don't push it. I'm not a thief. And I'm not loving your tone. Just given a warning. As long as you pay with good caps, we won't have any problems. No mooching. Got it. Good. Now that we understand each other, welcome to Fallon's. Happy to show you everything in stock. Fallon's basement. Interesting name. Yeah, it's ancient. There was a Fallon's here back even before the war. Grandad always said we had a tradition of quality and affordability. Guess affordability got too expensive for some folks. Damn thieves. And it ain't like Diamond City's security helps. Why doesn't Diamond City's security help you? My husband got taken. All right. By the Institute. Security wouldn't look into it. I raised a stink and now I'm blacklisted. Your husband was taken by the Institute? Well, he ain't here anymore. That's for sure. Not like the Institute leaves a trail besides those damn synths. What's a synth? You're joking, right? A synth. Those machine people, the Institute builds. Some of them even look human. Enough, you wouldn't know the difference. What do you know about synths? Just what I read in the papers. That the Institute builds them and some even look human. So much you can't tell the real difference. Lucky me, huh? Institute takes my Charlie. Doesn't even bother replacing him. That sounds to me like Charlie decided to head out to get some milk. I never came back. Not that he was kidnapped by the Institute. Becky Fallon watches us like a hawk. If we try to explore her shop, she follows us all over. If we go upstairs, however, on the top floor, we find a hollow tape. Join the railroad. Wake up, Commonwealth. Since they're not your enemy, they are victims in this war as well. True, they were created by the Institute, but they were created as slaves. Thinking, feeling, and dreaming beings utterly oppressed by their tyrannical masters. So join with us in fighting the real enemy, the Institute. Join the railroad. When you're ready for that next step, don't worry. We'll find you. Huh. So there are some people out there who are not afraid of synths. Sounds like they may even be the champions of synths. I guess we'll keep an eye open, but sounds like they'll find us first. Well, we really don't need to buy anything from Becky Fallon, so we can head back out. Wandering a bit further into town, we see people sitting in chairs before a platform. On top of the platform is Mayor McDonough about ready to give a speech. Everybody, everybody, I need everyone's attention. I would like to address the subject that is on everyone's mind. And that is the disgusting article Piper has written. Diamond City has stood united for over 150 years. And what keeps us united are two things. First is the great green guardian behind me, the wall, our protector, and our savior from the filth of the outside. And second is our faith and trust in each other. The faith and trust that has given us prosperity, security, and education for every citizen. And while the paper might point their fingers at synths and other ghost stories to drive us apart, we will not betray this sacred trust. Now, I want everyone to hear these next words very carefully. I am not a synth. I am the same flesh and blood boy who grew up on these streets, who was born in a shack just down the waterfront to Martha and Patrick McDonough. And I will not abandon my city due to the heinous allegations of the press. God bless this city. God bless the wall. He's so full of shit. Incidentally, we know this ballpark was called Fenway Park before the war in the Fulont Universe. Because directly behind Mayor McDonough, we see the words Fenway Park. They've been painted over with green paint and some of the letters are indistinct, but it clearly says Fenway Park. Gosh, this fear about the institute has whipped the people of Diamond City into a frenzy. And we understand why Mayor McDonough had to assure the people of Diamond City that he was not a synth. The way Piper wrote her article, the synthetic truth, juxtaposed Mayor McDonough sitting down right where Carter once sat, Carter who ended up being a murderous synth. Was she suggesting that Mayor McDonough was a synth? The whole town has whipped up about synths today thanks to Piper and her newspaper. Is her paper really helping the people of Diamond City or stoking unfounded paranoia? Do we really want to be a part of that by giving Piper an interview? Well, it's about time we've faced her. Maybe a quick chat will help us understand exactly what her real game is. Heading back to public occurrences, we can move inside and talk with Piper right. Remember, she asked us to stop by earlier so we could do an interview for her story. Glad you dropped by. You holding up, Blue? She calls us Blue, no matter what. If we're wearing a jumpsuit, she says, Why are you calling me that? Because of the blue jumpsuit you're wearing? You're a vault-weller. However, if we're not wearing a jumpsuit, she says, Because you're a vault-weller? I know you're not wearing the blue jumpsuit right now, but the Pip-boy and the fish out of water look. Dead giveaways. My favorite ballpark's become a shantytown. So, today's been great. Interesting you mentioning that seeing as you're from a vault. Jump suits a bit of a giveaway. It's been a bad day. Not like a cozy day in the vault, huh? Yeah, I know you're from. Jump suits a dead giveaway. Yeah, holding up. Look, I'm just gonna say it. You're a vault-weller. The jumpsuits a dead giveaway. So here's the deal. I want an interview. Your life story in print. I think it's time Diamond City had a little outside perspective on the Commonwealth. You do that, and I'll tell you what. I'll come with you. Watch your back while you get used to the world above ground. Yeah, the people of Diamond City definitely need some outside perspective. These guys are in their own little fish ball. And she wants to come with us? That was fast. Maybe she's getting sick of the place too. What kind of interview is this gonna be? I ask you who you are. Get your opinion online out there. Or maybe load up a few tough questions and keep it interesting. What do you say? Here's your headline. Local man says no. Gonna be like that, huh? Smart ass. Fine. We'll do this later, but I want that interview. Got me? Alright. It can wait for a bit. Alright, Piper. I'm in. Good. Let's get down to business. So I know you're from a vault. How would you describe your time on the inside? Why is that important? I'm here now, aren't I? I told you this is a perspective piece. People in Diamond City need to know you're from a different world than them. So what was the vault like? It was just me and a thousand guinea pigs. They turned carnivorous. Okay. I guess we're gonna have to go with the satirical approach to this article. Normal. Nothing out of the ordinary. Normalcy is a bit of a relative concept in the Commonwealth, but... Okay. I can work with that. My family and I were frozen. I didn't spend much time in the vault. Wait. They boxed you up in a fridge? The whole time? Are you saying you were alive before the war? The war? Which war? The one that gave us this lovely landscape of demolished buildings and nuclear radiation every 10 feet? You're telling me you saw everything before they blasted it into pieces? Behold. I am immortal. You know, I guess you kind of are, aren't you? No, I'm a spoke. Oh no. You're not backpedaling on that one. It's true, isn't it? Yes. I'm over 200 years old. Oh my god. The man out of time. So you've seen the Commonwealth, Diamond City. How does it compare to your old life? Can you even compare the two? The world out here? It's not even close to the one I left. Feeling a little homesick, are we? Can't say I blame you. I've been having too much fun blowing things up to think about it. Gotta make my job hard for me, huh? All right. If that's the quote, that's the quote. You're all living in rusty shacks, killing each other. May God smell. Okay. Well, it's gonna be a fun one to quote. Honestly, seeing everyone surviving out here, rebuilding the world, it gives me hope. That's surprisingly inspired, Blue. We're definitely quoting that. Now, if we didn't let it slip, that we can hear looking for our son, when we met Piper and Mayor McDonough back at the Diamond City Gate, Piper will ask us. Now, the big question. Why come to Diamond City? You're looking for someone, aren't you? Who is it? Why do you care? This is news. No one else in Diamond City may care about the missing, but my paper does. I lost family, okay? Trying to get one of them back. What's their name, Blue? Who are they? You heard wrong. I'm not looking for anyone. Don't lie to me, Blue. This is your story. Don't you want people to know the truth? My son, Sean, was kidnapped. He's not even a year old. The parent after the missing child. His heartbreaking today is it ever was. Tell me. Do you suspect the Institute's involved? However, if we already told her that we were here looking for our son, at this part of the interview, she says. Now I already know you're looking for your son. Sean, do you suspect the Institute was involved in his kidnapping? The Institute? Who were they? That Blue is the biggest mystery in the Commonwealth. No one really knows who or where they are, but their hand you work is all over. Since, synthetic people, sent from their hidden labs to do the Institute's dirty work. Sometimes they even replace a person with a synth double. A little covert agent, no one would ever suspect. Now, not everything that goes wrong has the Institute behind it, but there's always a chance. That's why I'm asking. They make synthetic people. That's right. There are two major kinds you have to watch out for. The first is an obvious fake. Skin looks like plastic, skeleton, might even be showing. You see groups of them scouring the Commonwealth, killing people and scavenging what's left. I reported on University Point a while back. Whole town got cleaned out. The second type of synth is the real deal. With skin, blood, warm smiles and guilty glances, just like a good old-fashioned human. So do you think they could be involved? The Institute are one of their agents. And if we don't already have University Point on our map at this point, Piper gives us the location. Now we understand why everybody in Diamond City knows about University Point. Piper wrote about it. I don't know. No one ever does. That's what makes them so scary. A man took Sean. Not some shadowy group. I hope that's true. Because if they are involved, everything gets worse. Sure sounds like they might be. Not even a baby you say from them. And people wonder why I can't just look the other way. For the last part of our interview, I'd like to do something different. I want you to make a statement to Diamond City directly. The threat of kidnapping is all but ignored in the Commonwealth. Everyone wants to pretend it just doesn't happen. What would you say to someone out there who's lost a loved one but might be too scared or too numb to the world to look for them? Wait. People just ignore kidnappings out here? Yeah, Blue. You haven't noticed? You grow up in the Commonwealth and eventually someone is going to get taken. Maybe not someone. No. But someone. And people just say, well, could have been worse. Could have been killed by radar attacks or super mutants or feral ghouls. They just give up. So I want my readers to hear what keeps you going. Maybe they'll find a little inspiration. Now what would you like to say? You can only take it one day at a time. Just keep going. That's all anyone can do. We're all just doing what we have to, huh? I think my readers can relate to that. Find who's responsible and make them pay. Simple as that. I'll take Aang Girl over Apathy any day. Good quote. Thanks, Blue. No matter how much you want to give up, don't. You have to have hope that you'll see them again. Or at least that you'll know the truth. A strong note to end on, Blue. Thanks. That's everything. It's going to take some time to put this all together, but I think your story is going to give Diamond City plenty to talk about. Look, about your son. I didn't know if you were on the up and up before. I didn't want to waste my friend's time, but I think he can help you. His name's Nick Valentine, Detective Extraordinaire. Got an office here in Diamond City. Just look for the neon sign with the heart in it. So you think this Nick Valentine can find Sean? Yeah. People don't like talking about him. Part of the whole head in the sand mindset Diamond City is famous for. But when you're down on your luck, no one else is going to give you a hand. He's always there. Neon sign with a heart. You sure he's not running a brothel? That would be hilarious, but no. No, Blue. He's on the up and up. I don't see how he could possibly help me. That's what most people say until they need him. And don't look now, Blue. But you do. Thanks, Piper. I'll talk to him. He'll like you. He's got a soft spot for the hard luck cases. Anyway, I agreed to come with you, right? Watch your back. Just say the word when you're ready. I can't wait to see where the story goes next. And with that, we again get pointed towards Nick Valentine's Detective Agency. But this time, without having to pay any bribe money or pass any speech checks. Not that they were very difficult. Piper is now available to be our companion. But since this story started with Cod's worth and innate, I think I'd like to continue with our robot botler for now. Exploring Piper's home, we can move to the northern end. Behind a cinder block wall, we find what must be Nats bedroom. She has a cooler with mole rat meat inside, some rat away under the dresser, and a bunch of children's toys lying on the ground with some dirty water. She's been coloring on the ground, and she has a sleeping bag with one nukakola. We see a printing press nearby with more copies of the synthetic truth. Heading upstairs, we find Piper's bedroom. There are some bobby pins on her desk next to her terminal. Public occurrences, your eyes on the truth. Inside, we find three entries in the first article, the synthetic truth. This is just a digital copy of the same newspaper that we just read. In the next one, reader complaints file, we find three options. In the first reader complaint, honor the wall, date February 15th. In your most recent edition, your paper failed to acknowledge in any way the contribution of the mighty wall in the defense of our town against last month's super mutant attacks. I find this extremely offensive, and will not be purchasing another copy until such disrespect is publicly corrected. Published response, we honor the efforts of all those involved in the defense of our great city from our valiant guards to the mighty wall. Personal response, dear whack job. Two members of Diamond City Security died defending this town. Where was your hunk of plywood for them? This letter could really be from anyone in Diamond City, but I think it's probable that this comes from Abbott, the caretaker of Diamond City's walls. We find him painting the walls towards the edge of the city. In the next one, happy story? Date April 14th. I find choices of topics sad. How about happy story? Maybe something about nice bar? Published response. Thank you for your feedback. Our stories are selected for the relevance and importance to the Diamond City populace. Personal response, Vadim, no story about your bar is going to end happily. This message was sent by Vadim Bobrov, who's the bartender of the dugout inn. I did a video on the confidence man, where we got to talk with Vadim and explore his bar a little bit. You can watch that video here. In the next one, for shame. Date October 1st. Your paper is just trying to drum up fears about synths to increase sales. You should be ashamed of yourself. Published response. Our paper makes significant efforts to ensure all our stories are accurate and free from editorializing. Personal response. Thank you for your concern. I hope you get snatched. Ugh. That's a bit dark, Piper. Backing out, we can scroll down and read public perspectives archive. In the first one, pair a more. Dear public, I am torn between two loaves. On one hand, I have my profession. Every moment I spend with the young up-and-comers for whom I work brings such joy. On the other hand, I have my coworker. Wise, patient, debonair. Many suggest that I am not lively enough for him, but I can picture life with no other. I long to confess my feelings for him, but my life is my work. Trying to add a relationship, it would simply shortchange everyone. I must choose public, but who? Pera more. Dear pair, love is rare. Two? Doubly so. Make it work, Pera. You work in the same building for Shucks sake. This was written by Miss Adna, a Miss Handy robot who works as a teacher inside the Diamond City Schoolhouse. The schoolhouse is run by Mr. Zwicki, and it appears that she has fallen in love with him. We can, optionally, persuade her to pursue her love. To find out if Mr. Zwicki feels the same way about her. Incidentally, the schoolhouse is one of the few places in Diamond City where we can find a perk magazine. If we look near the children's beds on the first floor inside the schoolhouse, we find live and love issue number nine. I married a robot. A magazine that may have given Miss Adna some ideas. In the next one, Teen Troubles. Dear public, me and my little girl have been on our own for a long time now. She's the most important thing in my life, but lately it seems like she's not as interested in hanging out with her papa. I understand she's got to grow up someday, but I'm not ready to let her go. What do I do to make sure I don't lose my little girl? Teen Troubles. Dear Troubles. Your girls becoming her own person. Let her make decisions. Screw up. Maybe throw some extra caps away so she can take her friends out for noodles more often. Then, when she's ready, she'll come to you. In the next one, Desperate in Diamond City. Dear public, I've been living in Diamond City for years now, but have never been able to land a girlfriend. I wear nice clothes and give them free drinks, but they just seem to think I'm some sort of creep. My boss says I've got a face only a mother could love, and I think he's right. I feel like I'm out of options, public. Should I take the plunge and change my face? Desperate in Diamond City. Dear Desperate, ever tried talking to these girls? You should give it a go. No more trying to buy your way to affection. You need to earn it. This was likely from Yathim Babrov, the brother to Vadim, who works as an in-keeper at the dugout in. In the next one, sleepwalking the beat. Dear public, I got this job. It pays the bills, but lately it's been making it so I can't sleep at night. Things have been so tense. I'm getting worried that if something doesn't change, I might slip up and get myself for someone else hurt. Any advice, public? Sleepwalking the beat. Dear beat, sounds like you need to relax more. I know after a hard day solving other people's problems, I like to grab a nukikola, pull out a stack of comics, and read to Life pass out. Give it a try. Could that be from a Diamond City security officer? Maybe from this private detective, Nick Valentine? In the last one, alone in the upper stands. Dear public, I could use a friend. Everyone in this town is either jealous of me, or afraid of me because of how I look and who I work for. I'm not willing to compromise who I am just so people will like me more, but it just gets so lonely. But you seem like a smart gal, public. Any chance you want to grab a drink sometime? Alone in the upper stands. Dear alone. Gonna have to take a rain check on that drink, but your instincts are good. New friends crop up in the most unlikely places. You just need to search them out. Huh. Afraid of me? Because of who I work for? Could this be from Geneva? The mayor's secretary? Backing out of the terminal, we could loot her bedroom. She's got a couple bobby pins and some summer shorts on a suitcase beneath her bed. Some stim packs and purified water on top of a dresser with an ammo box. When done looting, we can head back outside, but as soon as we get out there... Wee! Don't move, Sim. What have you done with the real Riley? Where's my brother? I swear I'm not a Sim. Don't shoot for God's sakes for family! Here, we have two options. We could intervene. This guy's about to murder his own brother, so we can end him first. I'm not a Sim. Don't shoot for God's sakes for family! Okay, Kyle. Joe. There are no Sins in Diamond City. If you hadn't shown up... You folks in your day... You were a paranoia. At least someone in this town did more than just stand in gawk. Or we can stand back and see what happens next. Put the gun down now. He's a SIT! He'll kill us all! Kyle. No! Okay, show's over. There are no Sins in Diamond City. Just you folks in your damn paranoia. Either way, we can talk with Riley. Hey. You pulled the gun on me. My own brother. What happened? Hey, who hasn't engaged in a little friendly attempted fracture side in their life? Your brother's dead. You want to kill you? You're safe now. That's all that matters. I'm not a Synth. I told them I can't tell them. Why didn't he listen to me? I... I need him in it. I need you to step away, Scaver. The guard says this if we didn't intervene. But if we did... Nice shot. But I'm gonna have to ask you to step back. Got to mess to clean up. Why the glum face? If I'd ran to murder, it was routine around here. You shut your mouth. We're risking our lives every day to keep assholes like you safe. Now move along. There are problem officers. I don't even start with me. I got a dead body in the middle of the damn street. Now follow orders and get out of here. All right. I'll leave. Just go about your business. I understand, officer. I just want to know what happened. You got bricks for years? I said get the hell out of here now. But if we pass the charisma, Jack? What you didn't hear the shouting? God pulls a gun on his own brother. Thinking he's a Synth. It's that newspaper's fault. Got people all riled up. Thinking their own family might be replaced by machines. Look, I'm sorry you got caught up in all this. But it's over, okay? Just go about your business like nothing happened. Better that way. What's everyone still standing around for? God, go back to your own damn business. Hank the wall, that's over. Oh my God. Synth. What the hell just happened? Everyone in this city is always jumping at shadow. Chill out and blast. Hank, are you sure? Why was a Synth? What the hell just happened? Inspecting the body of Kyle, we find no evidence that he was a Synth. No metal, no plastic, nothing. Kyle wasn't an institute synth that went crazy and tried to kill his brother. He was a regular old human who likely fed into the paranoia here and tried to kill his brother out of panic. We've talked with everyone in Diamond City who can tell us about Synths, tell us about the Institute, and who's able to point us in the direction we need to go. But we never had to talk with any of them. Because after all, we got a prophecy from Mama Murphy. And what was it she told us all that time ago? You find that heart that's gonna lead you to your boy. Oh, it's bright, so bright against the dark alleys it walks. The same thing Piper told us, the same thing everyone else has told us. Find a heart that leads the way. It's bright against a dark alley. Moving out of the marketplace, pass the bulletin board and turning right at the schoolhouse, we find a bright sign against a wall. A detective agency. Maybe they can help me. Detective. And it points down an alley. Halfway through the alley, we find a big, bright neon heart. This is the heart we're supposed to follow, and it leads to Nick Valentine, the detective. But heading down the alley, we overhear a conversation coming from some workers. I have to talk to you. You gotta wonder. Does anyone fight back? Insta Jew has to have that in the trite. What? You mean the railroad? That's a fairy tale, man. They don't exist. Nah, I heard from my cousin. He knows a guy that works for him. They got a code phrase and everything. Follow the Freedom Trail. The hell is that supposed to mean? You're full of it and that kind of talk is gonna get you snatched up by the scents. With that, we start the quest, road to freedom. Follow the Freedom Trail. But we have absolutely no idea what this means yet. We'll have to keep our eyes open for this Freedom Trail. But it looks like we have at last found someone who might be able to help us find Sean. This Nick Valentine, a Valentine's detective agency, is right around the corner. In our next episode, we'll head into his office and see if he can help us find the boy. But sadly, I am all out of time. I publish new episodes in this series each and every week on my channel. So if you don't want to miss that episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already, but you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter and Oxorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find the link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do, and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comment sections of my videos and access to ox emojis that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.