МУЗЫКАЛЬНАЯ ЗАСТАВКА МУЗЫКАЛЬНАЯ ЗАСТАВКА В our last episode we finally built the signal interceptor with all three factions. The Minutemen, the Brotherhood of Steel, and the Railroad. Now we have to step on the platform and see if this thing can actually send us to the Institute. I'm ready when you are. One small step for Nate, one giant leap to find answers. Okay, hold real steel. I don't want any corruption of the molecular beam. Let's see, relay's dialed in, beam emitters warmed up, everything looks green. So stand still, you got locking all those molecules of you. Hopefully we won't miss any. There's only, you know, 60 trillion of them. Let me start scanning for the signal. Brush your fingers. I'm inputting the code now. All right, feeding our baby some juice. Let's see what she's got. Wow, there's a heck of a lot of interference and ghosting. It's going to take a minute or two to lock in. By the way, this little trip you're taking is a heck of an opportunity to find out as much as we can about the Institute and what they're up to. By the way, I figured this was a golden opportunity to find out as much as we can about the Institute and what they're up to. I put a clever little program on this holotape that'll scan their network and download anything it finds. Yeah, this holotape's all set with a program that will scan their network and download anything it finds. If you place it in any terminal down there, it'll do the rest. Bring it back to me and I'll see if I can make sense of whatever it found. Take this holotape. You need it to contact Patriot. Oh, man! No one! That's all part of the page! Tom, do whatever you can to gain their trust. Live! Tell them what they want to hear. Make up a cover story and sell it. Oh, uh... Yeah, we better hurry. Don't worry about that tubing wiggling around. It's just there for decoration. Well, well. Looks like we have a winner. RF wave capture complete. Ramping the emitter. 60%. Come on! I think I got it! Establishing luck on the Institute's signal. Just get all the information you can about since, about the Institute's plans. Find their weaknesses. If we can disable or destroy the Institute, we may have to do it. Okay! Scanning for the Institute's signal. 80%? Emitter spiking but steady. All that's left is to throw the transmit switch. You jack that holotape into any terminal and Patriot will make contact. He has to. Got the all up! We got it! Tracking RF and got it! Find a way to save them. Nobody else can. Transmitting in three, two, one! Stay safe, soldier! Hold on to your butt! Now, now! The LAST RUN The LAST RUN The LAST RUN With that we complete the quest, the molecular level. And we appear in a circular room surrounded by strange humming devices. There is only one door out of this room, directly before us. In the next room, we don't find any enemies. There is a console in front of us, but a hallway to the left. Rounding that way first, we can see what's here, but it appears to be a closed-off room. There is a big pipe with a red door lying here, but we can't interact with it. So back to the main room, we see another door leading off to the east. This appears to go down a staircase. But on the other side of the console, we find a terminal. In this console is an emergency relay button. Maybe we can use this to get out of here. And activating the terminal, we can see what's here. Access terminal 001-B, we can view access logs. Recent access, x324, validation blub blub blub. x657, validation blub blub blub blub. xxxxx, error, signal rerouted. The previous two must have been coarsers that were sent using this console. The 5x's must be us. We rerouted that signal. Now, just as we were leaving, we were given a sidequest from every single faction we worked with. Each of them gave us a holotaped labeled a network scanner. If we are working with the Miniman, we can load the network scanner into this terminal and initiate a network scan. Downloading, downloading, scan complete. Our questlog updates to return the holotaped to surges. If, however, we were working with the Brotherhood of Steel, we actually get the exact same interaction. We load the network scanner, initiate the scan, and get the same results. Only now, of course, we need to return the holotaped to Proctor Ingram. But, if we are working with the Railroad, we find a couple more options here. First, we can read a message from Tom. The big D demanded a tutorial be included, so here it is. Short version, plug this into any Institute terminal and copy the message. Long version, Patriots been sending us short coded messages for years using an evil little encryption scheme. It was a biotch and a half to reverse engineer. Patriots got skill, but I nailed it. Put this holotaped on any Institute terminal and it'll deliver a gift-wrapped message straight to Patriots. You're going into the belly of the beast friend. Don't trust anything. Tinker Tom out. Backing out, we can copy an encrypted message. Copying message 001. Copy, complete, break, break, break, detected, foreign program, holotap hijack. Copying urgent reply 001 from terminal. Copy, complete. Backing out, we can read the urgent reply. Echnolaged, meet at the advanced systems maintenance room. Well, that was fast. Patriot has responded. And now, if we're working with the Railroad, we can meet him. But using this holotaped, we can, like with the other two factions, initiate a network scan. Copying all of this information to the holotaped, we can pocket it to bring back to the Railroad at a later date. Backing out of the terminal, we can try to push the emergency relay button, but it's not working. Stepping into the relay, we can't get back out. But we really don't want to right now anyway. The Minimum just wanted us to learn as much as we possibly could. But both the Railroad and the Brotherhood of Steel wanted us to infiltrate the Institute. To work with them, to pretend, like we're on good terms with them, for as long as possible. So to continue, we need to sneak inside and pretend we're one of them. Our only way forward is through this double door. And stepping forward. Hello. I wondered if you might make it here. You're quite resourceful. I'm known as Father. The Institute is under my guidance. I know why you're here. I'd like to discuss things with you face to face. Please, step into the elevator. With that, we begin the quest institutionalized. The elevator opens up before us. They know we're here. It doesn't really look like they're hostile. We can put the gun away. Before heading down, we can loot this room. There are a couple of tables with first aid kits and small containers. There is a door against this wall, but we can't access it. That leaves the elevator our only option. Stepping into the elevator, we can take it down to meet this Father. I can only imagine what you heard. What you think of us. I'd like to show you that you may have the wrong impression. Welcome to the Institute. This is the reality of the Institute. This place, these people, the work we do. For over a hundred years, we've dedicated ourselves to humanity's survival. Decades of research, countless experiments and trials, a shared vision of how science can help shape the future. It has never been easy. And our actions are often misinterpreted by those above ground. Someday perhaps we can show them what we've accomplished. But for now, we must remain underground. There's too much in stake here to risk it all. As you've seen, things above are unstable. I'd like to talk to you about what we can do for everyone. But that can wait. You are here for a specific, very personal reason. You are here for your son. At the top of the elevator, the sliding door opens, stepping forward, we see a boy in a cell. On the other side of the glass, we find Sean at last. Sean? Huh? Yes, Sean. Sean. Is that really you? Oh, God damn them. So many years stolen. Sean. I've been looking for you for so long. Sean? Oh, my God. It's really you. For you. Sean, where is everyone? These bad people, they stole you from me. Come on, Sean. We need to go. Sean, it's me. I'm... I'm your dad. What's going on? What's happening? Sean, are you okay? You're not hurt. Are you? We're leaving this place. Together. What's going on? Those bastards, they took you from me. Yes, it's me. Your dad. I'm here, Sean. What's going on? Father? Father! What do you want me to do, Sean? What can I do? Sean, open the door. I'll kill them for this. All of them. Shh. It'll be okay, Sean. I'm here now. Who know you? Go away. Father. Father, help me. There's someone here. Help me. Who is father? Where is he? Sean, please calm down. I'll get you out of there. Damn it. Sean, open the door. Father? Please, Sean. I'm your father. Talk to me. Just open the door. Father? Father, help me. He's trying to take me. Father? Father, help me. Sean. S923. Recall code... Syrus. Которые have entcled ... с годами. МЯ京а Rebel я съехал. sûr, willen выrun 파�个 слышу. Мы только convictions начнем走了 к старому Abdullahной тети. Стried to be ashamed of guardable иatured. Они Cataloupabledются... Раживанные крышки Transit, не Arctic, не простоimpression radically, ноandro Я, мой дядя, welcome to the institute. Father, that's your name, your title? Father is my unofficial title. It's what I've come to mean to the people of the institute, just as... as you mean to your son... to Sean. This is... insane. All of it! The degree of trauma you're experiencing right now is understandable. Please... just try to relax. I know this is all difficult to take in. I could kill you. Right here. Right now. Yes. Yes you could. And I would be powerless to stop you. Give me Sean! The real Sean! Right now! I know. I know. You've gone to such lengths to find him. I'll make this very simple. Where is my son? He's here in the institute. Closer than you think. Oh God! All we're missing are the teacups and the white rabbit. Ah, Levity! Excellent! I assure you that you adapt quickly to stressful environments. I want answers, asshole. Now! Under the circumstances, I will forgive your vulgarity. Just... Help me understand what's going on here. I promise dancers. And answers you shall have. But I need you to realize that this... situation is far more complicated than you could have imagined. You have traveled very far. And suffered a great deal to find your son. Well... Your tenacity and dedication have been rewarded. It's good to finally meet you. After all this time... It's me. I am Sean. I am... your son. What? How? How is that even possible? I know this is a lot to take him. Oh, come on! That's crazy! I assure you... I am completely sane... and entirely honest. Bullshit. Is it? After all the things you've seen and experienced in the Commonwealth... think about it. It's really you. After all this time. Yes. It's true. You had no concept of the passage of time. You were released from your pod and went searching for the sun. You'd lost. But then you learned that your son was no longer an infant. But a ten-year-old boy... you believed that ten years had passed. Is it really so hard to accept that it was not ten? But sixty years. That is the reality. And here I am. Raised by the Institute. And now it's easier. And I suppose it could be true. We've already come to terms with the fact that there was a hiccup of time... after we saw Nora murdered by Kellogg in Vault 111. When Kellogg walked away with Sean, we were re-frozen. At the time it felt instantaneous, which is why we started looking for an infant boy. It was only later that we realized that we had been in that pod for at least ten years. Which is why we were looking for a ten-year-old boy in Diamond City. But if it could have been ten years... it could have been sixty. And if this boy we found here is a synth. The boy we saw in Kellogg's memories also could have been a synth. Because the man standing before us, the man called Father, could very well be Sean. Hell of a story. But... I guess... does make sense. I'm glad you're willing to accept the truth. It's quite encouraging. They stole you. Kidnapped you. Wasn't right. Right, wrong, irrelevant. It was necessary. The Institute believed humanity's future depended on it. It... It wasn't right what they did. Taking you for me like that. To you that would certainly seem true. But to the Institute, it made all the sense in the world. But why? Why take a child? Why take you? Ah, now that's the question, isn't it? Why me? At that time, the year 2227, the Institute had made great strides in synth production. But it was never enough scientific curiosity and the goal of perfection drove them ever onward. What they wanted was the perfect machine. So they followed the best example thus far. The human being, walking, talking, fully articulate, capable of anything. Human synths? Really? Human-like synths. A great distinction. Yeah, you lost me. I don't see the point of any of this. You don't see the connection. Let me try to explain. I think I see where this is going. Then perhaps you already understand why it was necessary for the Institute to acquire me. So the weird science experiments needed specimens. That's why they took you. In a manner of speaking. Yes, the Institute endeavored to create synthetic organics. The most logical starting point, of course, was human DNA. A lot of that was available, of course. But it had all become corrupted. In this. Wasteland. Radiation affected everyone. Even in their attempts to shield themselves from the world above. Members of the Institute had been exposed. Another source was necessary. But then the Institute found me. After discovering records from Vault 11. An infant. Frozen in time. Protected from the radiation-induced mutations that had crept into every other human cell in the Commonwealth. I was exactly what they needed. And so it was my DNA that became the basis of the synthetic organics. Used to create every human-like synth you see today. I am their father. Through science we are family. The synths me and you. And you... you've been down here the whole time? I have. Yes. 60 years. So much time. Wasted. I know. At this point we have two options. We could embrace the truth that this really is Sean. Or we could reject the truth and say that we don't believe him. I don't believe you. There's no way any of this is true. I wish there was something to say. I know this isn't what you want it. But it's the only truth I can offer you. Why are you doing this to me? After everything I've been through. I don't mean any of this to hurt you. I'm just... I'm trying to help you. Help us. You're my son. Then prove it. Now. I've already told you how I came to be here. I don't know what further proof I can offer that would convince you. You're lying. I know it. Why would I lie? What would I have to gain from it? I assure you this is the truth. It can't be true. It's all just... It's just too much. I'm so sorry. I wish the things were different. I've shown you my trust. Your weapons haven't been confiscated. And I stand unarmed before you. Please. Let's just talk. At this point in the conversation, we can at least agree to talk with him, or we can stubbornly insist that this isn't our reality. And we want out. We have nothing to talk about. I want out of this place. Now. I had certainly hoped we could work together. But every man must make his own decisions. In which case we started dialogue tree, where we get banished from the Institute. Alternatively, if we had admitted that this really is Sean, or if we had agreed to continue to talk with him, the conversation continues. Sean. It's really you. It really is. If this is true, where do we start? All right. Let's talk then. I know you must have questions. Please. Anything I can do to help you understand. Kellogg. He worked for you? Kellogg. He was an institute asset long before I arrived here. It wasn't until I became director that I learned of all the things he'd done. What kind of man he was? You knew the man was a psychopath. You used him anyway? I don't expect you to understand or agree with the decision. But if we passed the charisma check, would you have preferred that I turned him loose on the commonwealth? At least keeping him on a short leash kept the collateral damage to a minimum. Kellogg was... Let's just say he was more complex than you might think. After what he's done, I'm surprised to hear you say that. He was a murderer. He killed your mother. Believe me. I am well aware of the atrocities Kellogg committed. I suspect there are many more will never know of. After what I've seen, I pity the man. He was as much a victim as anything. After what he did to you, I'm shocked you would be so generous. But yes, I understand you've experienced things. Perhaps you ended up knowing him better. I for one will never truly forgive him. The Institute took advantage of Kellogg's vicious nature. I will freely admit that. Institute technology prolonged his life and... His usefulness far beyond any normal human lifespan. He never failed the Institute. But his cruelty became more apparent with every completed objective. I won't lie. It's no coincidence your path crossed his. It seemed a fitting way to allow you... Us... To have some amount of revenge. What else can I say... To ease your mind? And at last all of the questions we had about Kellogg are answered. The pieces have finally come together. We learned from Kellogg's memories that he was born in 2179, 108 years ago. 10 years before the New California Republic became a complete nation. All five states now signed on feet that at this moment we are all citizens of the New California Republic. We just learned from Father here that Sean was taken from the vault in 2227. At that time, the year 2227, the Institute had made great strides in synth production. Exactly 60 years ago, that would have made Kellogg 48 years old when he went into Vault 11, killed Nora and stole our boy. The reason he looked exactly the same when we met him at Fort Hagen, compared to how he looked when we saw him in Vault 111, is because the Institute had augmented him to dramatically increase his lifespan. And we saw these augmentations on his corpse after we killed him. All this tech... You were barely human. It was through using these augmentations that we were able to explore his memories. Conrad Kellogg was a cyborg. 108 years old, kept alive and kept strong by the Institute. Your mother? She never got to see you grow up? Yes. What happened to her was... I've gone over the records of the incident, of course. It seems her death was an unfortunate bit of collateral damage. Collateral damage? Is that all she was to you? What would you have me say? The world is a dangerous place. Although I think maybe it always was. It's just a bit more honest about it now. But if we pass the charisma check... I forget that it's been such a short time for you. I don't have any direct memories. And I've had my entire life to cope with the loss. Has it always been easy? Of course not. But I've done my best to move on and live my life. Collateral damage? She was murdered? Yes. Murdered? I'm not so sure about that. Still, I do regret never having known her. You don't remember. You didn't see it the way I did. It was brutal. Yes, I'm sure it was. Sadly, the world has become a brutal unforgiving place. Sean, she loved you so much. I have no doubt. I'm afraid I have very little experience with those emotions. Having lived my life within the Institute. For many years I never questioned who my parents were. I accepted my situation. And that was that. With old age comes regret. And asking what if, more often. But... What matters now is that you and I have a chance to begin again. What else can I say to ease your mind? So you're in charge of the Institute? I am the acting director yet. I spent decades working to reach this point. It's a responsibility I take very seriously. The Institute. It's important. It really is humanity's best hope for the future. No matter what those above ground might think of us. But director? Why you? I was the most qualified for the position. Obviously. I've lived my life within these walls. Dedicated to science like every other member of the Institute. My hard work has paid off. They need your help, Sean. It's rough up there to say the least. Oh, we've tried that. Surprised? The Institute wants try to help create a stabilized Commonwealth government. It ended in bickering, infighting. It was a disaster. No. We look after our home now. They're scared of you, Sean. Scared of the Institute? People are always frightened by what they don't understand. It doesn't matter what they think. It matters what you do. I'm glad we see it the same way. Ultimately, the Commonwealth has nothing to fear from us. Whatever you've seen or heard, I know I can convince you of that. Just give me time. What else can I say to ease your mind? I think I've heard enough for now. Very well. The Institute is on the verge of some important breakthroughs. Your presence would be appreciated as we approach them. I've been a part of something amazing here. I've helped to build a life for myself and the people of the Institute. And now, after all these years, you have an opportunity to help with that. Doesn't that intrigue you? Isn't that what you want? You want me to stay here? In the Institute? Yes. That is what I propose. Is it so hard to imagine? Maybe. I... I don't know. This is so much to take in. I know. And I am sorry. You have been through so much in such a short time. At this point, we can either agree to stay in the Institute with Sean or reject him and say no. I won't be a part of this. I can't. Why? Because of the reputation of the Institute, the Institute can provide a better life than anything above ground. You've been in the Commonwealth. You've seen what it's like. I assure you that you are better off with us. How can you say that? How can you be so dismissive of all those people? Everything they've done. Because it is the simple truth. And I believe you know it too. I don't know what to do. I realize that. It's why I'm trying to help you. I hope that you can see that rationally. The Institute is the only thing left in the world that is worth being part of. Your Institute has done some horrible things. Yes, well. The world is not what it used to be. What about the people you've hated in order to get here? What atrocities have they committed? The brotherhood of steel. They believe they're the only ones fit to control technology and destroy anyone who opposes them. And you would side with them. None have any true claim to nobility in this world. Those days are gone. But we are not the monsters we have been cast as. Things are pretty terrible up there. I've seen it myself. I know. That is why we are so committed to creating a better life for ourselves here. And it's a life that you can now be part of. I simply ask that you give the Institute. Me? A chance. A chance to show you what I've been telling you. We really do have humanity's best interests that heart. Will you take that chance? Are you sure you want this? Yes, I am. It would benefit us both to work together. And even if we said no earlier, we can again have one final opportunity to say yes. Or we can again say no. I'm sorry. I can't do that. I'm sorry to hear that. I had certainly hoped we could work together. But every man must make his own decisions. If you choose to leave, I cannot force you to stay. Understand, though. That I cannot allow you to remain within the Institute. You may have safe passage back to the relay where you will be sent back to the surface. But from that point, you must be considered hostile. I am sorry. I must think first of the safety of the Institute. And in the cruel world that has developed, those who are not with us, are against us. The elevator will return you to the relay. And with that, Sean asks us to leave. But even after all of that, we can talk with him again. Sean, can we talk about this? Have you reconsidered your decision? Sean, isn't there some other option? Some other way we can work things out. You've seen the Commonwealth. You must have some idea of how this world works. You're either with us or you're not. I'm afraid it's that simple. We could say that we've changed our mind. I've changed my mind. I'll work with you. Well, that's good to hear. All right, then. Which puts us back into the joining the Institute Dialogue Tree. Or we can stand our ground and say no. I'm sorry. I'm not interested. That's a shame. I had hoped for so much more. You may see yourself out. Forget it. Never mind. I see. Well, as I've said, you may see yourself out. The child's synth, Sean over here, remains in a deactivated state. At this point, we have two options. We could turn around and take the elevator back, retracing our steps towards the relay. We can't activate the relay until we complete our side quests to load the network scanner into the terminal. Only then, oddly enough, do the doors open. And we're able to step into the relay. Whereupon we appear in the ruins of CIT. We complete the quest institutionalized. But in so doing, we've disappointed the Railroad and the Brotherhood of Steel. Remember, they wanted us to infiltrate the Institute. And we just failed that. And so we start the side quest, burning cover for the Railroad, form ranks, for the Minutemen. And if working with the Brotherhood, we have to head back to Elder Max and to see if they've got a contingency plan. Or we could have killed Sean. In this case, we have to return to the elevator. But this time, we are met by synths. We have to fight our way all the way back to the relay room. Hello! And then, just like last time, И так уже они действительно historiesь solely этого, понимают -♪ Как вы странные счастья, честно что это вы училие Дима Селики в предказ向ท screening д conscience И зато, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, как ты, Я уверен, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я Я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я боюсь, я Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор Holdren in BioScience, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор АО in SRB, Доктор А Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО в SRB, Доктор АО В этом случае, это было. Это что-то новое. В этом случае все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все это все ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты ты И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. Мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду. И с этим мы имеем ввиду.