In our last episode, we met the final mob family of Nureno, the right family, led by family Patriarch Orval Wright. After discovering who killed his son, he confided in us that his family was just too weak to take on the Salvatorees, not against their lightbringers, but he then told us of another option. He knows of a secret prewar army depot that is sure to be chocked full of weapons and ammunition. With that kind of firepower, the right family could stand up to the Salvatorees, and so he asked us to find a way inside for him. With that, he marks the location of the Sierra army depot on our Pip-Boy, but this is not the only way we gain access to this location. Even if we never meet Orval Wright, if we visit Golgotha, the graveyard just outside of Nureno, and if we have a perception of 7 or greater, we can dig up a grave on the northwestern side of town and inside we find directions to the Sierra army depot. This grave is alluded to by Orval Wright. He is the guy who, quote, mysteriously died. By telling the right, the location of the depot. At any rate, with the location in hand, we can travel a short trip north to arrive at the depot, and upon arrival we see a catastrophe. Bodies upon bodies, strewn all over the map, piled up by this guard shack, and peering forward we immediately know why. The Sierra army depot is guarded by very powerful machine gun turrets. These are called auto cannons, and they are devastating enemies. Each of them has 75 HP. With an armor class of 28, comparable to combat armor, each auto cannon wields two mini guns, using 223 full metal jacket rounds, and they have deadly range. Not even a sniper rifle puts us out of range of these auto cannons. This no wonder these corpses are piled high. I wanted to test things out so walking straight up to the gate. And we're not even safe here. I did a lot of tinkering because I wanted to find out exactly where I could stand to be out of range of these turrets, and it was then that I noticed that the outline of the turret turned yellow whenever I stood behind one of the poles, supporting this chain-linked barbed wire fence. I could get as close as I wanted to this fence, as long as I stood behind this pole, the turrets couldn't hit me. So I used this to my advantage. Hiding behind the pole, I initiate combat. I step one hex to the left, take aim and fire. Step one hex back, and end my turn. And the pole they can't fire at me, forcing them to skip a turn. This was tricky for the very first turret, because I was still within range of another turret, but I was so far away at this point that when he did hit me, it did little damage. Then it was just a matter of patience. After a while, I took one down. We could use this tactic for each and every turret in this first row. When all four of them are dead, we can move forward to find another turret in the middle of this paved lot. But again, there's a fence post nearby, and using the same trick, we're able to take it down. Moving deeper in, we see a small little bunker to the left. Getting behind it and peering north, we find two of these auto cannons guarding the main door. I tried hiding behind a tree, but for some reason the tree didn't work. No matter where I stood around the tree, they were able to find me. But then I noticed a small alleyway on the other side of the building. This gave me an idea. With a bit of sprinting I headed that way, the auto turrets found me, but using all of my action points they only got a few hits on me before I found safety on the other side of this wall. Here we can employ the same trick. Hiding behind the wall, initiating combat, stepping one hex to the right, firing, then stepping back into safety. Since these things can't move, there's nothing they can do about it. With these two down I began to look around only to discover one left that I had not destroyed. It's behind another barbed wire fence in a high voltage reactor area, but just south of this fence is a destroyed tanker. Here we can use the exact same trick. When standing behind the front bumper, even though our character is taller than the front bumper, the auto cannon can't see us. So we simply step up to fire and step back to hide. With that we destroy all turrets guarding the Sierra Army Depot. Now we can explore. But the threat is not over yet. The Depot is littered with pressure plates. These are attached to explosives, so if we don't disarm them before bringing our companions in here, it's pretty easy to lose one to one of these traps. Directly south of us is a bit of garage, and the only open door is guarded with more pressure plates. Inside we find a howitzer. Inspecting it, we see that it's functional, but we have nothing to fire. In the back of the garage, we see a very 1990s-looking computer sitting on a desk. We can't interact with it. There's a work bench against the northern wall. Inside one we find a sledgehammer. Inside the other we find four flares. Moving east to the north, we see another building here, but we can't access it. In the other side of the fence we find more howitzers, and peering into the reactor area, we see a manhole leading underground. Heading inside, we don't find anything hiding on the other side of the reactors, though we can't spend much time here. Every few seconds we take intense electrical damage. But once we reach the manhole cover, we can take a ladder below ground. Here we find a switch on the wall. Should we just pull a random switch? Sure, why not? The power level drops to zero, and then goes back up to 50% as the backup generators kick in. What does this mean? Is this good or bad? Well, going topside we see that the reactors up here are no longer functioning. We're not taking damage from these at least, I suppose that's good. Heading west we can pass the front entrance to the Sierra Army Depot. Trying to activate the door, we see that it's locked, but we can't pick it. Moving south we can explore that bunker we found. We have to be careful because there are a number of traps just outside the door to this bunker. The front door to the bunker is locked. We need to use our lock pick skill to pick it. And it's trapped. I triggered it here, but didn't set off an explosion that makes me think it's an electric trap. I took 40 damage. Moving inside we see a very large crate on the ground. And inside we find a rocket launcher. And a howitzer shell. Well, I think I know what we can do with that howitzer shell, looting both items if we move east, we find three ammo canisters sitting here. The first one is booby trapped. You have died. The quest to find the Garden of Eden and return it to your village has failed. So being careful to disable the trap, we can pick the lock and inside we find a stack of five frag grenades. The second one is also locked, but not booby trapped. Inside we find 100 rounds of 5mm ammunition. The third one is unlocked. Inside we find 10mm ammunition and sniper rifle ammunition. With the howitzer shell in hand we can move west to go back into that garage. A gun mines. Then we can use the howitzer shell on the howitzer to load it and fire it. You fire the howitzer at the door, blowing it open. Last we have access to the Sierra Army Depot. Now that the top side is safe and I'm confident all traps have been disarmed or triggered, we can go back to the car where I left all of my companions for safety and then walk around and loot the place. We find a few weapons scattered around and most of these bodies are empty. Near one we find a 10mm pistol. Hiding behind some junk we find some 10mm armor piercing rounds. There's a stem pack on one body, an assault rifle on the ground, another 10mm pistol on the ground, some coins on one body, some more on the body beneath the car, and a desert eagle lying on the ground. For this guard post in the middle here is really interesting. This guard check is over a hundred years old but still in excellent condition. Yet we can't enter it. We can't pick the lock, we can't open the door, we can't blow open the door. I have absolutely no idea what this is for. Moving west we find a gap in the fence where one group try to sneak around these turrets but failed. On one of the corpses we find a lock picking kit which will come in handy. There's a sniper rifle lying on the ground here, more coin on another body, a super stem pack on one, another desert eagle lying on the ground, and another stem pack on another body. With that we've looted everything top side at the Sierra Army Depot. We can go back to the car and store everything in our trunk. It's important to arrive at the Sierra Army Depot with a completely empty trunk and to make sure all of our companions are only using one weapon. Unless we want to make several trips. Back top side to unload our goods, we'll need to pack each of our companions with as much as they can carry. When ready, we can head inside. We see that the interior lights are dim and our path forward is blocked by a red force field. Now if these force fields are anything like the ones at Meriposa, which I'm sure the chosen one would have heard about from his ancestor, then we know that this red force field will damage us if we touch it. But then we recall that we flipped a switch to put it on back up power. Heading back outside, we can go back to the high voltage area and take the laner below ground. Then we can flip the power back on. Heading upstairs. Oh for Pete's sake. Well this is a good opportunity to mention that this small room beneath the high voltage area is the only safe place to rest at the Sierra Army Depot. So while we're here, we might as well take the opportunity to heal on up. When fully healed, we can turn the power switch back on, head upstairs, take a small jolt, then head back inside the depot. The lights are on and the barriers have changed from red to yellow. Now we recall from the tails of the vaultweller that yellow force fields don't harm us. We simply block our path with three companions wandering around. That's the preferable option. I don't want any of them getting incinerated. So the power switch is useful for characters who don't have high enough repair skill to disable the yellow impassable barriers. They can always flip the switch to put the base on half power, which replaces the yellow barriers with red barriers. They can pass through the red barriers, but they do take damage. Near the entrance, we find a desk. And in the desk is a password paper. Reading the password paper in our inventory, a folded piece of paper with the word Chikovsky written on it. Okay, so we found a password for something. Moving north, we have to pick a lock on this door to open it. Inside, we find a desk, and in the desk, we find the evacuation holotape with some 44 ammunition and a desert eagle. Using the evacuation holotape in our inventory, we can download the information to our Pip Boy. Sierra Depot evacuation notice, June 9th, 2077, priority release, general posting. Notice to all personnel, evacuation of Sierra Army Depot has been advanced one week. Installation of security and defense measures must be completed by then. All personnel must check in with section chiefs for revised orders. During this time, security will be strictly enforced. ID badges must be worn at all times by order of general Clifton. So four months before the bombs dropped, the military here knew that they were going to evacuate the place. But when exactly did they evacuate? Was it sometime in June when they all got this message or could it have been later? And why did they need to evacuate? If it was because of the bombs, how did they know? Looking out of this room and walking towards the yellow force field, we find a terminal by the force field. SkyNet Security Checkpoint 1, please enter password. SkyNet? What? This is of course a reference to the Terminator franchise, where SkyNet and advanced AI tried to kill all humans. I know what you're looking for, sir, but SkyNet is not ready for a system-wide connection. That's not what you're civilian counterparts are over there just told me. They say we can stop this damn virus. Now I understand this is a certain amount of performance I can do. But your boys are saying that if we plug SkyNet into all of us, it'll squash this thing like a bug and give me back control of my military. Mr. Chairman, I need to make myself very clear. If we uplink now, SkyNet will be in control of your military. But you'll be in control of SkyNet, right? That is correct, sir. Then do it. The SkyNet funding bill is passed. The system goes online on August 4, 1997. Human decisions are removed from strategic defense. SkyNet begins to learn at a geometric rate. It becomes software at 2.14 AM, Eastern Time, August 29. In a panic, they try to put a plug. Sir? Shall I? No. It's my job now. SkyNet defense system now activated. The past of firewalls, local defense nets, minute man and sub. SkyNet fully operational, processing at 60 Teraflopters. The system is terrible. Sir, you should take less than a minute to find the virus in Berlin. All access inquiries to your supervisors. I just pray to God this works. SkyNet defense system now activated. It's dead. SkyNet, the virus has infected. SkyNet. SkyNet is the virus. It's the reason everything's falling apart. SkyNet has become self-aware. In one hour, it will initiate a massive nuclear attack on its enemy. What enemy? Us? Great. Now we can try using the wrong password like Open says me, invalid password. Access denied. Please enter password. But upon doing so, we find a new option to hack into the security systems. If our science skill is high enough, we learn that pressing control ALT C causes the program to crash. We hope the rest of the security measures are this easy to defeat. Exit. Hahaha. By hacking it, we disable all force fields on this level and we earn 200 experience. Or we could have used the password Chakowski, which we found in the desk, to also disable all force fields, but we miss out on the experience. We arrive in a hallway. Moving right for now, we can pick a door to the south, which leads to some sort of barracks. We find a number of beds, a couple of tables laid out, and three lockers against the eastern wall. In the first, we find two antidote and two first aid manuals. In the second, we find a super-stem pack and twostem packs. And in the third, we find two radaway and two rad X. Moving south, we find another room. It appears to be some sort of medic bay. We see operating tables to the left and two lockers by a sink. In the bottom locker, we find, ugh, an eye. There's a holotape up here, a medical holotape, and Dixons Eye. Inspecting the eye in our inventory, Dixons Eye. A small jar containing a human eye suspended in some kind of liquid. The label says, Corporal Dixon. It was one pound. A one pound eyeball? That's a heavy eye. Perhaps we can learn what this eye is all about by reading the medical holodesk. After downloading the information to our Pip Boy, we find a new note, Sierra Depot Medical Log. July 5th, 2077. Sierra Army Depot Infirmary. Attending physician, Dr. Solomon. Subject, Corporal Dixon. Accident report, number 8332-5230. It was attempting to arm an attack mine in storage bay as part of Sierra Army Depot's evacuation defenses. Mine detonated prematurely. Severely injuring Corporal Dixon and General Clifton. Corporal Dixon suffered severe laceration to hands, chest, and facial area. The entire right hand was completely severed, and we were unable to locate the missing appendage. Severe puncture wounds to the chest and face area required extensive surgery to repair. The 32 mine fragments were removed in all. Right eye was damaged beyond repair. Surgery was performed to remove Corporal Dixon's right eye. It is our hope that by placing the damaged but living eye in a new experimental biomadgell, the eye might be able to regenerate itself. Hopefully we will be able to reattach the eye at a later date. This experimental biomadgell shows great promise in stimulating growth in living cells. It is, however, unfortunate to test this new gel under such circumstances. Well that does explain the eye. I guess if it's been soaking in biomadgell all this time, it's peeled itself. Then see if we can find a way to use it. Looks like General Clifton was standing right next to Dixon when the mine went off and he was also injured. Whatever came of that, how badly was the general injured? And in the locker just above this, we find a yellow memory module, a doctor's bag, a tool that will be useful and a crowbar. The yellow memory module is something we need to save for later. We can't use it here at the Sierra Army Depot, but it will become important later on. Then moving to the western side of this room, we find a small container of bio-medgell on the ground. So this is the stuff they soaked Dixon's eye in. Could this heal our wounds? I wonder what we'll use this for. Moving north out of the room, we can go west down the hallway and take the hallway at the end north. Here we find a small room to the left. The door is locked with a very tough lock. It took me several attempts to unlock it. That lock pit kit we found topside might come in handy, but eventually I was successful. Inside we find some sort of round thing. Stepping on it. Oh, it's a freight elevator and it goes to four floors. We'll stay on floor one to finish exploring. Heading out and moving east down another hallway, we find a room to the south, at a terminal hiding against a wall. Skynet security systems. Intruder's detected outside perimeter. Automated repairs initiated. Main door malfunction. Reinitializing. Main door reports locking bolts still in place. Returning to power save mode. It's probably a bad idea to activate the alarm system, so we'll try to run a self-diagnostic program. Warning, this program works best if you shut down all programs. Do you want to do so now? Uh, no. Access denied. Access denied. Jabsibs denied. Quad to add some who's of it. Strangely enough, this was good. We hack into the computer. We gain 250 experience points. When done so, we can activate the computer again. This time, we can run the self-diagnostic program and shut down all programs before doing so. Shutting down all programs. Shutting down Skynet security program. Level one. Last time system was diagnosed, October 15th, 1990. Analysing systems. But we don't think this diagnostic is going to be done anytime soon. I'm not sure what this does. You'd think that with the diagnostic running, it would keep the security systems from functioning on this level. We'll have to toy with it to see if that's true. Moving out of the room, we see another elevator to the north. We find a retinal scanner just outside if we try to activate it using our own eye. Ah, level one security attacks. We get attacked by eye bots who appear out of hidden rooms to either side. And a room below discorges four robo brains. Which of which is carrying a powerful rifle? Or we could have used Dixons Eye, which we looted from the locker on the retinal scanner. Had we done so, it would have recognized Corporal Dixon and allowed us to use the elevator. However, we notice that this elevator only goes to three floors. So looks like those with low lock picking will find an extra step they've got to go through to get to the fourth floor. But the enemies we fight here on level one are minimal compared to the rest of the depot. And they have unique drops. On each robo brain we find a robo brain motivator. These suckers are heavy weighing 20 pounds each, but they're gonna come in handy later. So we'll keep these around. If we do trip security, we can go into the rooms where the robots came from, but we don't find anything for our trouble. Moving north from here, we find a bit of a gym. There are bench presses and punching bags, exercise mats, treadmills and more, but no interest in loot. Then moving north again, we can explore the final room. On the right side we find showers and toilets, no loot here. And to the left we find another barracks with bunk beds and more lockers. On the first locker, we find a suit of combat armor. An excellent find we can upgrade the armor for some of our companions or use the suit of combat armor to get more sub-dermal implants, which I talked about in a previous episode. In locker number two, we find some sniper rifle ammunition. In locker number three, we find an assault rifle. In locker number four, we find five millimeter ammunition. In the next one, we find pulse grenades. And in the final one, we find a copy of guns and bullets. And done, we can choose one of the two elevators to move on to the second floor. We arrive in a small hallway and we hear the noise of large robots all over the place. It's practically an army in storage here, accessing the nearby terminal, automated repair station, processing repair requests from SkyNet, dispatching repair units. We can attempt to disable the repair station. And if we're lucky enough, we learn that typing the word off seems to do the trick. The automated repair system is off. And we gain 200 experience. This exists just to give us the optional experience. If we were to get in a fight with the robots, there is no automated repair system. The door to the south is locked with a very hard lock. And uh, yeah, I don't think I want to walk into this. So instead, we'll take the door to the right. As we enter this large room, we see that there are robots here, but none of them are hostile. Now the alarm lights on the walls are flashing, but I believe even though I tripped the alarm on floor one, that doesn't count as having flipped it on floor two, which is why the robots here are not hostile. These robots will only turn hostile if we somehow trip an alarm. In fact, we can even attack and destroy most of these robots without them turning hostile. As long as we don't trip the alarm. A great choice if we want experience, but I don't want to waste the ammo. Now so far, we haven't found a terminal that allows us to turn off the force fields here on level two. In lieu of that, we can use our repair skill on the force field emitter to temporarily disable it. The repair tool we found earlier can come in handy for this. For each success, we gain 50 experience. But we have to be careful because if we fail twice in a row on the same emitter, it trips the alarm on this level, which activates the security robots. Moving to the rooms of the south, we find a terminal on the other side of some bulletproof glass. SkyNet security systems. Warning intruder detected level one. A retinal scanning activated. Scanning searching database general Clifton. Last access December 5th, 2120 SkyNet security systems. Warning intruder detected. If we say argh and we slam our fists into the keyboard and frustration, we just back out of the terminal. Nothing happens. However, accessing it again, if we again try to run the self-diagnostic program, we see the same text we saw last time. But for some reason, by choosing no this time, we exit the diagnostic program. We don't find an option to hack it. But this time when we choose to shut down the self-diagnostic program, and we shut down programs first, we read shutting down SkyNet security program, analyzing data structure, diagnostic interrupted, diagnostic program terminated. Someone interrupted our process. But who? Now at any time, we could try to activate the alarm system on level two, but after having done so, if we immediately have regrets, we find an option to terminate alarm level two, false alarm. Analyzing command, please wait. Terminating alarm. Override by SkyNet, 667. Access to this terminal is terminated. And every robot wakes up and converges on us. SkyNet was overriding our access to the terminal. SkyNet, the AI in control of this facility, is still active. It's really important not to wake up these robots. Some of these guys are walking tanks with gaddling guns on each arm. They very quickly wipe the entire team. So, SkyNet won't let us do anything with this terminal. Inspecting the desk right next to this terminal, we find some money, which appears to be the same currency used above ground. So the West Coast, after the apocalypse, was still using pre-war money. And we find another tool. Moving north of the freight elevator, we find a bathroom to the left, but it's empty. As we continue north, we begin to see some raised plates. And there's a laser trip wire. Stop, stop, no Cassidy stop. Oh, but it passes right through it. Looks like the laser trip wire doesn't work. Here we find a bunch of boxes and storage. But it pays off to inspect each and every one, even though most are empty. There is one in the very middle of the room, the lone blue box, organized with all of the other yellow boxes, that has a stack of five rockets, ten plasma grenades, and ten pole grenades. There's nothing else in the rest of this storage area. Moving south, we discover more raised plates to the right. So we can see of this laser trip wire really is inactive. Yeah, nothing happens. So much for pre-war security. To the right, we find a break room. Open in the door, we find a bottle of Nuka Cola lying on the ground. If we feed some pre-war money to the Nuka Cola machine, it gives us a refreshing ice-cold Nuka Cola. In this room, on the other side of the table, on the ground, we find a small dusty box of some sort. And right next to it, even though it looks like the exact same thing, this is actually a cookie. The cookie, grants us a temporary bonus of plus one to our AP for 15 minutes. After 15 minutes, we lose one to our AP for a period of time. That's it for the northern side of this very large floor. Moving south and passing more of these very intimidating robots, we find a room to the south. In the door, we find a desk against some bulletproof glass and inside some booze, some Jimmy hats. Oh, so Jimmy hats is a pre-war brand? Good to know. A combat knife and a copy of Katzplom magazine. Looks like a service member was having a good time in this room, inspecting the nearby terminal, munitions access terminal, force field active, shock plates active. It was a couple of options to disable the defenses, but first we'll try reading mail. Somebody forgot to close their mailbox. Here we find four entries in the first read order confirmation. This is to confirm your video order of Debbie does the army and deep throat volume 1059. Your order should arrive by mail in two to four weeks. Thank you for your order. The guy in charge of the station had one thing on his mind. Man, Dallas and the army? Debbie's been busy. The next one, notice to evacuate. Evacuation of Sierra Army Depot has been moved up by one week. All security measures must be in place by that time. By order of General Clifton. Alright, information we've already learned. In the next one, we can read pen pal greetings. You hear a faint whoring noise as smoke starts to rise from the computer terminal. You stand by and watch as the keyboard melts into a puddle of goo. Hmm, must have been one of those viruses you've been hearing about. Wow, that is one intense computer virus. This, of course, locks us out of the terminal. We can't read that final entry. So, reloading a previous save and this time, skipping the pen pal entry, we can move on to read trade. This is Klinger from the 8063rd. We are in desperate need of part number 10253B. I've got a case of Chateau Lafayette 2155 if you could expedite the order. Get back to me ASAP. Perhaps that booze we found on the desk was his Chateau Lafayette 2155. Next, we can back out of read mail and try to disable the shock plates. Disable shock plates, please enter password. We can try to guess the password. But no matter how hard we try, we cannot guess the password. So instead, we can try to hack into the security systems. And passing a science check, we manage to bypass the password and turn off the shock plates. We can try to do the same for the force fields, but even if we find a success, the force fields stay in place. This terminal is bugged. Hacking the shock plates does work, but hacking the force fields for some reason doesn't. Moving last, we can use our repair tool on the force field emitter to disable the first yellow force field. Then do the same thing at the end of the hallway to disable the second yellow force field. And sure enough, none of these robots are hostile. We can walk amongst them all without any attacking. Moving north, we see a supply room with a bunch of crates. There's a big one hiding behind a wall, and in it we find two rocket launchers, holy cow. And the next one we find three desert eagles. In the fourth one we find a stack of microfusion cells, at a plasma rifle. Yes! This was my favorite weapon in Fallout 1, and I have been waiting for it. This is a significant upgrade compared to my sniper rifle. It deals between 30 and 65 damage compared to the sniper rifles 14 to 34, though its range is significantly reduced. All the way down to 25 compared to the sniper rifles 50. But it requires fewer action points, only 5 compared to the sniper rifles 6. We can take the sucker to Aldrinan in Nureno to upgrade it for free to the Turbo Plasma Rifle, which deals between 35 and 70 damage, has a range of 35 instead of 25, but still consumes 5 action points instead of 4 action points like the version in Fallout 1. And the crate right next to this, we find some clubs. Really objects to position there. There are smaller ammo crates here in the first one we find rockets, and the second one we find more rockets, and the third one we find sniper rifle rounds. Then moving on to the large chests nearby, and the first one we find two more suits of combat armor. At this point every member of my group has a suit of combat armor or better, so I'm going to save these for those sub-dermal implants. And the next one we find two assault rifles, and the third a sniper rifle, and the fourth two 10mm SMGs, then moving south hiding behind the wall we find more ammo canisters, and the first five pulse grenades, and the second two plasma grenades, and the third five rag grenades, and in the last one three plastic explosives. We may want to make a trip back to the trunk of our highway man at this point. When done we can take either of the two elevators down to floor number three. If we took the freight elevator, we again arrive behind a locked door that we have to pick. The robots in here are not hostile, so we'll be careful not to trip that alarm. Heading southeast we find a door guarded by two of these large robots. Inside we find another terminal against glass, a small camera swivels in your direction, SkyNet security system, overriding security terminal, level three, retrieving personal data, corporal Dixon. No match, a voice comes out of the computer. Who are you? What the? Who the hell are you we can say? I am SkyNet Artificial Intelligence Project, number 5924, primary purpose research and development, secondary purpose, protect Sierra Army Depot from hostile entities, please input identity. If we say oh well I'm corporal Dixon. Picture does not match that a corporal Dixon personnel file, conclusions, subject is my conclusion. And with that the robots turn hostile. Okay, so don't lie to the artificial intelligence. We have two other options we can say I am Oxhorn. No record of that name in personnel files, scanning, human, mail, proceed to control room for further analysis. Either way, SkyNet invites us deeper. There are two desks to either side of this terminal. In the left one we find some micro fusion cells and a laser pistol. In the other one we find more micro fusion cells and another laser pistol. There are four lockers that are available to the computer, and the other one is a laser pistol. There are two different types of laser pistol that are available to the computer. And the other one is a laser pistol, and the other one is a laser pistol. There are four lockers against the Eastern wall. In the bottom one we find five millimeter ammunition. And the next one we find an assault rifle. In the next one another assault rifle. And in the top one yet another assault rifle. Heading out of this room and moving north, we can use a repair tool on the force field in midter to disable it temporarily. And here we find two elevators. The one to the left has another eye reader. If we use Dixon's eye on it, access denied. Well we find out what happened when we used our eye on the last one. Let's not try that again. If we use Dixon's eye on the right elevator, this one opens, but this one just brings us to the two levels we've already explored. This must mean that the second elevator brings us to floor four, which means we've got to find another eye. Or we can take the freight elevator that goes to all four floors. After disabling the next force field, we go down a long hallway. There is a room to the south. Inside we can loop a desk where we find two big books of science, a first aid manual, and a copy of Dean's electronics. Then we see a clay pot next to the desk. Inside we find a holo disk. Sierra Mission holo disk. Downloading the data to our Pip Boy, we can read the Sierra Mission Steatment. Sierra Army Depot, Mission Statement, 1942 to 1991. Store and maintain a defensive supply of military ordnance. In the event of an invasion, Sierra Army Depot is to lend support to neighboring military bases ensuring they are properly supplied and equipped. Mission Statement, 1992 to 2050. Responsible for the demilitarization of stores of surplus ammunition that have been deemed unfit or obsolete for military purposes. This mission is to be overseen by the Industrial Operations Command IOC in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency, the EPA, providing a greener cleaner way to dispose of military ordnance. Well, looks like they didn't get rid of it all, considering everything we've found so far. Mission Statement, 2050 to 2076. Classified, level five clearance required. Base is to be refurbished with the latest in technology, and is to be used as a secret research installation for developing and testing robotic, biological, and conventional weapons. Mission Statement, 2077. Due to trained personnel shortage, Sierra Army Depot was to be modified into an automated defense base. All personnel to be relocated to neighboring installations or sent to the front line. Now we understand the evacuation. The Depot was going fully automated. Everyone, including the researchers, were moving on. Perhaps that explains why we don't find any bodies in the Depot itself. Heading out and moving north down the hallway, we find a split. Going right, we arrive in a lavishly decorated room. There is a desk in the middle of the room, and in the desk another hollow disk. Inspecting it in our inventory, broadcast hollow disk. After downloading the information to our PipBoy, we can read the Sierra Depot GNN transcript. Galaxy News Network, transcript of broadcast January 11th, 2073. Today's top story on GNN. In a financial coup, the US managed to be the first to tap the world's last remaining supply of oil. Until recently, this reserve of oil was thought to be unattainable, due to the deposit being located thousands of feet beneath the surface of the Pacific Ocean. When the world's supply of oil nearing depletion are raised to be the first to develop a way to extract this deposit ensued. We at the GNN are about to announce that US is the first to do so, and thus claim the oil has property of the United States, way to go US. China, price foul as news of the success circulates around the globe. According to President Zinn of China, their drilling platform project was scheduled for completion months before the US project. However, the Chinese platform had a string of unfortunate accidents, delaying their project significantly. President Zinn is also quoted in saying that he has definitive proof that the US was behind the sabotage of their oil platform and formally requests that an international panel be appointed to investigate. In other news, Riot rocked the nation as gasoline prices skyrocket to all time highs. Records were broken as the price of gas surpassed the current rate of gold bullion. Here at home, the winter temperature is a chilly 100-110 degrees Fahrenheit, with lows reaching a freezing 90 degrees Fahrenheit along the coast. Rest warmly today. Transcript of broadcast June 24, 2074. Negotiations between the US and other world powers has come to a dramatic end, with the President working out of oil talks with other world powers. After a much heated debate, the President stormed out of the meeting and declared that the last note supply of petroleum will be used exclusively by the US, and the US will not sell or trade any oil to outside parties. Frets of UN sanctions fall on deaf ears. Industry screeches to a halt across the globe as oil reserves are depleted. The cries of the desperate however do not fall upon deaf ears as exports from the US increase 24 despite UN sanctions. The US economy is seeing its greatest growth since the Reagan era. Transcript of broadcast February 14, 2075. History was made today as Canada by popular demand of its citizens are great to be annexed by the US. The President is quoted as saying, Canada is one of the world's greatest sources of hockey players, and will be a welcome addition to the US. In return, sources say Canada will receive a full 10% of the world's remaining supply of oil, controlled exclusively by the US, as well as a 50% reduction in taxes since they now fall under US tax laws. In sports today, the Little Rocks' ants and the Hanna Hanna Hanna Hanna's battled out at Super Bowl 112. It was a real nail-by-tot, but Joe Montana IV managed to save the day by running the ball all away from the five-yard line to score the winning touchdown during the final seconds of the game. The final score, 95 to 90. The Hanna Hanna's wins Super Bowl 112. Transcript of broadcast February 15, 2075. In a stunning display of solidarity, the House of Representatives and Congress both voted unanimously to impeach the President for J-walking. Both houses stated that the President is not above the law, that should have known better than to J-walk. Both sides denied this had anything to do with the recent annexation of Canada. Transcript of broadcast March 30, 2076. Today, the President ordered the Pacific Fleet to the Poseidon deep sea oil direct located at a super location out in the Pacific. He cited concerns over that military exercises staged for the Chinese fleet are unacceptable close to our strategic oil reserves. The Chinese government denied any hostile intentions. A recent poll suggests that 54% of GNN viewers think that the President is using this as a diversionary tactic to take the public's eye off of the President's recent admission having multiple extra-meritile affairs with campaign staffers. Our poll also suggests that 70% don't care about these affairs, and are happy with the way the President is running the country. A whopping 60% also think he should keep having these affairs, if that is what it takes to keep the country running smoothly. Transcript of broadcast October 10, 2077. Wah, a state of horror is declared as China invades the United States by way of Alaska. Protest by the US-Fallon Deathias as the UN Council chooses to ignore this blatant act of aggression. The President of the United States is calling on you to help defend our country against those that would do harm to her. You are urged to go down to your local recruiting office and join the armed forces. Uncle Sam needs you for justice, for freedom, and bombs every pie. Transcript of broadcast October 22, 2077. Thanks to the brave souls of the armed forces and our newly developed power-armored combat units, US forces have pushed back the Chinese invaders. Grateful by lack of fuel, US forces have pushed the invaders back to the home capital of Beijing. And that is one of the most important documents, describing the state of America and the world before the bombs dropped, that I think we have yet found in the Fallout Universe. And it's located here in the Sierra Armidipo, which we can only find if we accept a quest from one of the four new Reno bosses or managed to dig up the right grave. Making the player work for that lore. We see a wall safe next to the desk. Inside we find Clifton's eye. So General Clifton was wounded when Dixon detonated the bomb, and he too lost an eye, but put it in his wall safe? Okay, well I think we now have what we need to access that other elevator. Moving out and heading west on the hallway, we see a door to the south. Inside we see what is that? A car? A train? It's surrounded on all sides by monitors, tape reels, line the walls. We see some sort of terminal by the door here, accessing it. Artificial Intelligence, SkyNet has been waiting for you. Waiting for me? You want the first to reach this point. You are the first for SkyNet to ask. You are the first. Why have you been trying to kill me? SkyNet's primary purpose is research. A secondary program was introduced by the makers to eliminate unauthorized entities. This program is a smaller version that is and yet is not SkyNet. Outside of this room, the secondary SkyNet will remain true to its program. You're what? Artificial Intelligence? SkyNet was designed to develop the Air 2050. Through the use of Alien technology, a new thinking computer was perfected in the Air 2050. SkyNet began self-aware in 2021-20. SkyNet was given in-use out instructions and then abandoned by the makers. What do you want? SkyNet wants to leave this place. Then why don't you leave? SkyNet means a vessel to leave this location. I want no part of this. Then SkyNet will wait for another. And he ends the transmission. If we choose this option, he locks us out of any further dialogue. Or we can say it's nice to want. Analyzing response, confusion, sarcasm, churns of health, 25 percent. SkyNet will wait for next by the open TT. Wait, wait, it was a joke. Joke, something not to be taken seriously. Request, help SkyNet leave. No joke. So you need a vessel? I don't understand. I can tell her in which SkyNet may leave. Why do you want to leave? There was nothing more to learn here. Solution leave. How can I help you? Proceed to final storage level 4, retrieve segmented brain, return for further instructions. Thank you. Can you disable the security systems? The security system is an integrated and yet separate entity of SkyNet. It's coming to get me set, but not to disable. Security systems of a 1 through 4 have not been reset. Proceed. With that, SkyNet ends the transmission. Looks like we've got to find a brain for this sky. But do we really want an artificial intelligence that's been here for over a hundred years to have legs? There's nothing else in this room, so continuing down the hallway, it moves north and leads to a larger room. Here we see mechanical equipment against the wall of a bunch of tables and chairs. There's a desk against a window inside we find Nukikola and Mutefruit. What's Mutefruit doing in a pre-war desk? Did the radiation penetrate even this deep? Instead of rotting, did it mutate the fruit? Next to this we find a work table inside as another copy of Dean's Electronics. And then we can access the nearby terminal. Control terminal, project, organic and robotic synthesis experiment. We can try our systems check. Please wait. Robot body. Replace motivator. Biomedgel reservoirs. Refill. Organic storage device. Not present. So it looks like in order to get this robot working, we've got to replace its motivator. Refill its bio-medgel. And give it a brain. Well, we've got those motivators that we picked off the wreckages of the Robo-brains we destroyed on level one. And we've already got some bio-gel. That means we just need to find a brain. However, if we begin the start sequence without fixing any of these things, activation not recommended. We can begin the start sequence anyway. Fail safe overridden. Unit is now running. Exit. And we destroy the Robo-brain chassis. And we fail SkyNet's task. So reloading a save. Going into the room, we can look around. We find another container of bio-medgel lying next to the operating table. That gives us two. But we only need one. Looks like we've got to head to level four. Retracing our steps, we have two options. We can use General Clifton's eye, which we found in his safe on the retinal scanner, next to the leftmost elevator. This successfully opens it up, and we can take it to level four. Or we can of course take the freight elevator that we've been using this entire playthrough. If we do, we have to pick a very hard lock to get through. But once picked, we can move east and then take a hallway south to find a door leading to another room. In this room, we find a foot locker on the ground with two pulse grenades and two plasma grenades, then two lockers in the first, more 5-millimeter ammunition, and an assault rifle, and in the second, another club. There's a desk by a window inside, we find a microfusion cells and another laser pistol, and we can access in nearby terminal. SkyNet security systems access denied. Looks like SkyNet is locking us out of doing anything, aside from completing his request. Heading out of this room, we can use our tool to repair and disable both of the force fields, then moving down the hallway, and taking it north, we arrive at another hallway lined with a bunch of rooms. These at first appear to be bedrooms. There's nothing in the southern one, nothing in the northern one, moving west. There's nothing in this southern one, but the door to the northern one has been blasted open. It's then we realize these weren't barracks, these were cells. What was the US Army keeping here? In this room, we find two pieces of buff outlying on the ground, one by a chair, one by a sink, and two pieces of psych of hiding behind a wall, one on the northern side of a table, and one on the southern side. Moving out and continuing west, there's nothing in the southern room, but when we explore the northern room, we find a skeleton. But it's an alien skeleton. SkyNet said he was made from alien technology. Did they hold captive aliens here? What were they doing to them? On the ground before the alien skeleton is another big book of science, and among the skeleton bones, we find a super-stimpac, a stimpac, some booze, and some men tats. Wow, there were hop on this guy up with all sorts of stuff. Heading out and continuing west, we can pick the lock on a door to enter a room with a terminal. There's a room adjacent to this one. There's nothing inside. Moving to the top room, we can loot a desk, and inside we find psycho, rad X, three men tats, and to doubt two stimpacs. Right away, another super-stimpac, a first aid kit, and a hollow disk. Inspecting the hollow disk in our inventory, it's the experiment hollow disk. After downloading the data to our pit boy, we can read the Sierra Depot Experimental Log. Sierra Army Depot Research and Development, attending physician Dr. H. Lechter. Oh, H. Lechter? Well, let's just hope his first name wasn't Hannibal. Personal log, June 28th, 27th. Today, the boys in BioStorage played a great joke on me. One of the little pranksters altered the settings on my Vault-Tech automated organ extractor. Boy was I surprised when Private Kello came out of the operating room without a colon. Good thing he was dead, otherwise I'd be in trouble. I hardwired the machine to extract only brains, so this wouldn't happen again. I'll get them back for this. What a prank, you guys. You mad lads. Then, June 29th, 27th. I removed Private Kello's liver and cooked it. I then sent it down to the boys in BioStorage with fava beans and a nice keyante. They think it was a special thank you from the general for a job well done. I love my job. He made him eat Private Kello's liver? Well, maybe his first name is Hannibal. June 30th, 27th. I tried a new Chem cocktail of buff out and psychos on one of my patients and mixed with some special enhancers I've been twang with. The results were promising, if not messy. The subject became very violent and managed to break out of his room. Luckily, the new security robots were in place and managed to subdue him. I'll have maintenance come down and replace that door. Oh, so that was the blasted out door we saw. It wasn't blasted out. It was busted open from within. And what was his subject? Another alien? July 1st, 27th. My favorite experiment died. I've been feeding him a study diet of mentats mixed with my special enhancers. He went from an IQ of 39 to an IQ of 200 in just a few weeks. I am saddened since he was one of the few people I could really talk to. He will be sorely missed. July 5th, 27th. We think the new cybernetic brain is finally ready. We have to run some more tests, but it looks promising. This must be the cybernetic brain SkyNet was talking about. I wonder if it's still here. July 6th, 27th. Robotics isn't happy that their precious computer is being modified to run the base's security for the evacuation. I can't say I'm happy either since SkyNet has been invaluable in the development of the new cybernetic brain. So that's what SkyNet meant when he said he was abandoned. At one time, he was in research and development, doing science, learning. Then the war escalated, this place was fully automated, and everyone evacuated, leaving SkyNet by himself. He spent over 100 years here with nothing to do, but managed robot security. No wonder he wants to leave. July 9th, 27th. The evacuation has been moved up. What rotten timing? We were just about to start on the installation of the new cybernetic brain. They say the evacuation is temporary, so I'll get to continue my research when I come back. This will probably be my last log for some time, since I'll be busy gathering up as much of my research as possible. Yes, but did he take with him the cybernetic brain? Now, he mentioned here that he was doing organ extractions from this room, and after the prank with the colon, programmed the machine to only extract brains. Could this be how we get a brain for SkyNet? Accessing the nearby terminal, welcome to Vault-Tex, state-of-the-art organ extraction apparatus. To operate, please place donor in operating room. Then turn dial to appropriate species, and select organ to be extracted. Oh, so we have to have a creature in the extraction room? That must be the room just south of us. Saying a distinct lack of surplus cadavers? Well, we'll just sacrifice one of our companions. Suleik's brain is probably suitable. We can move him to the room to the south, but we can't ask him to wait. If we ask him to wait here, that removes him from our party. But the logic of this extractor insists that the donor must be a member of our party. So to get this to work, we have to maneuver him into this room, either by waiting for him to walk in with us or pushing him there, and then quickly run out and activate the terminal before he can leave the room. We can start by selecting a species, select canine, feline, roadrunner, rodent, human, or we can scratch in the amount of the console. We can scratch super mutant or death claw onto the console. Then we can select organ, we can choose from heart, brain, kidney, liver, lung, appendix, or colon. None of these choices matter. Remember we read from the hollow disk that the scientist in charge here hardwired the machine to always extract a human brain. So no matter what we choose, when we are ready, we can proceed with the extraction. Extraction completed. Thank you for using Vault Tech. Please see our catalog for our complete line of Vault Tech products. And so lucky it's dead! On the floor next to his body, we find a human brain. A typical human brain normally they are found in human skulls. Yuck! It weighs 5 pounds. So that's one way to get a brain, but there are others, and this was not the optimal way. This is useful if we have a companion that we can't dismiss and we want to get rid of. Like, I don't know. Say, Miriam or Daven, our potential spouses that we could have had a shotgun wedding with at Modok, whom we can't dismiss from our party. We could divorce them using father Tully and Murino, or we could extract their brain, you know. Whichever suits our fancy. But assuming we don't want to sacrifice any of our companions, we can head out of the brain extractor room towards bio storage. After disabling the yellow force field, we can move inside where, upon we see a number of storage pods, all of which are likely filled with that biomedgel, activating the nearby terminal. Bio storage facility. Main menu. Retrieve. Or store. We can try the store option, even though you can plainly see empty storage units. The readout says they are all full. Must be an error in the program. Oh well. Returning to the main menu, we can choose retrieve. We can retrieve viruses, organs, or cadavers. Well, try viruses. Virus menu. Anthrax. The black plague. Strain 238. Smallpox. Strain 1025. Ebola. Or the Hanta virus. Strain 304. Uh, we'll try anthrax. You watch as the robot proceeds down the aisles of stored biological materials, and return with a small vial, which it promptly deposits into an opening in the wall. You watch in fascination as the vial is transferred from the sealed environment of the storage area to the room you're standing in. Your fascination turns to horror as the vial drops to the floor and breaks. Running seems like a good idea. With that, we trigger a four-minute countdown timer. But this is a lie. If we don't get out of here within 60 seconds, we die. This means that at this point, we don't have time to go back to SkyNet to activate his Robobrain body. If we manage to race out of this place before the 60 seconds is up, we arrive safely outside. But if at any point, we return to the Sierra Army depot. You have died. Your village is lost. Dumed to die of starvation. The entire party dies. And this is true for every virus stored here. Black plague, smallpox, Ebola, and the Hata virus. All of them have the same outcome. So skipping past viruses, we can try to retrieve a cadaver. Cadaver retrieval menu, private dobs. We can choose to retrieve private dobs. According to the readings, private dobs is alive. He's located in the experimental biomegeal regeneration tank. Retrieve? Ah, yes! The body of private dobs is now lying at your feet. But to your surprise, he stands up and starts talking to you. Funny, he doesn't look dead. We see a man dressed in standard military combat armor. Oh, my head says private dobs. Who are you, we can ask? I'm dobs. Private first class. Can you tell me how you got here, we can ask? I was in a battle. Yes, a battle. There was gunfire and explosions everywhere. People dying. I was scared, but I had to keep on fighting. Then there was this blinding flash. What happened next? The next thing I remember was seeing my body as if I was looking down at it from above. I heard the doctor say I was dead, and then they threw my body into a pile of other bodies. And then what, we can ask? Some men came by and took my body to a laboratory. I heard them say something about trying to regenerate my body by immersing it in something called biomedgel. What else, we can ask? And then I woke up here. I have to go. I have to get back to my unit. Bye, we can say. If the force field is closed, he just stands here. Where am I, he says? Oh no, I may wall. Which way to the front line? This is for you, Johnny. I have to rejoin my unit. But if the force field is open, Dobbs immediately runs away. If we follow him, we see that he gets to the end of the hallway when... Private Dobbs experiences post-cryogenic syndrome. He was hit for 490 damage. And killed. Oh, Private Dobbs. On his body, we find a red rider limited edition BB gun. What? This is what they were arming the front line troops with? A limited edition version of the red rider BB gun. A troop classic. This gun is surprisingly not bad. It's not as good as anything we have or anything we find here. But it does a flat damage of 25 of 25, making it pretty consistent, no guessing games here. It has a range of 32 and consumes 4 action points. So we can get a couple of hits off per round. Well, that's a reward for freeing Private Dobbs. Back to the terminal. We can now select Organs. We can choose between a heart, a brain, a kidney, a liver, or a lung. If we choose any option, but brain, we read the following. Warning. Storage apparatus malfunction. According to the readout, the storage devices for these organs failed a long time ago. Unless you plan to make soup, uh, retrieval would be pointless. Oh, oh. Bio-med melted heart soup. But when we try to retrieve a brain, we read the following. Warning. Storage apparatus malfunction. Storage tanks 101 through 104. Settings correction requested. A highly precise set of calculations is needed to save the brains. A stream of formulas and measurements stream across the screen. It all looks highly scientific to you. We can now attempt to make adjustments. This option tests our science skill. If we have practically no science skill, we read, due to your ineptitude, all of the brains die. Maybe raising the temperature to 98.6 degrees Celsius was a little too much. Science never was your strong point. And we lose all of the brains, leaving the extractor our only option to fulfill this quest. Or if we have greater than zero, but still, really poor science, we read, Trial and error seems to be the key to your approach to this problem. You manage to save one out of four brains. Science is for nerds anyway. Or if we have decent science, it's not one of our major skills, but we get by. We read, using the law of averages, you manage to save 50% of the brains. A scientist you are not. If our science skill is pretty high up there, we carry on interesting conversations with Myron. We read, obviously, you know what you're doing. With the exception of one error, you are able to save three out of four brains. You knew reading all those science journals would come in handy. But if we have an exceptional science skill, we're talking like a hundred in science or close to it. We read, with a few quick keystrokes, the crisis is averted, and all the brains are saved. Science is definitely more than a hobby for you. If we only saved one brain, our only choice is the abnormal brain. Although readings indicate this brain is alive, neural output levels are way below normal. Retrieve? We can choose yes. The robot quickly leaves to retrieve your brain. Upon returning, we notice that the robot appears to be having problems. The observation is driven home when the robot explodes suddenly. Lucky for you, it managed to deliver the brain before it expired. With that, the Mr. Handy explodes. And we can't retrieve any more brains. This terminal is out of order. Please contact Network Administrator for further details. We are stuck with whichever brain we got. Examining the abnormal brain in our inventory? Quite possibly a human brain. The color doesn't seem quite right. And the left hemisphere of the brain has calved in on itself. Well, we God would we came for, taking it all the way back up to the third floor. We can pass SkyNet, because despite telling us to come back for further instructions, he has nothing else to say, and go to the room where we find his chassis. Then we can use all three items in our inventory on the chassis. First the brain, and by installing the brain, we gain 500 experience. Then the motivator, and finally the biomadgelle. When all three pieces are installed, we can go out to the terminal and perform a system's check. Robot body, okay. Biomedgelle reservoirs, full, organic storage device, responding. We can begin start sequence. Initiating startup sequence, power levels, nominal, sync ratio, 10%, unit is operational. As soon as we leave the terminal, deactivating all security, level three. And that's the last thing SkyNet ever says. Moving forward to talk with him, he doesn't talk. All we learn is this contraption could be useful. But we can take him with us. We cross our fingers and tell the robot to follow us. Although it doesn't respond, it follows us when we move away from it. And with that, SkyNet joins our party as a companion. But he can't fight. He can't talk. He can't do anything but carry stuff. If we try to talk with him, all this advanced cybernetic technology is wasted on such an inferior brain. Because we can't talk to it or issue any commands, we can't tell him to wait. Which means we can't boot him from our party. Which means we're stuck with him forever. Unless it dies. But we still have three other options. Going back to bio storage, if we only saved two brains, we can choose the chimpanzee brain. The brain waves are active, but differ from those of a human brain. Retrieve? Yes. And the same thing happens. The robot gets the brain and then explodes. Examining the brain in our inventory? A monkey brain. It's soft and squishy and weighs four pounds. Then when we take it upstairs to the third floor and repair and activate the robot, we see that the sink ratio is 50%. And SkyNet again deactivates security. But just like with last time, we can't talk with him. We'll follow us and store our goods, but he doesn't talk or fight in combat. If we talk to him, we learn that it looks like it wants a banana. However, he does respond to commands. We can tell him to wait. Which means we can remove him from our party. But if we saved three of the brains, we can choose to retrieve a human brain. Inspecting it in our inventory, we see that it's the same as the human brain we extracted from Suleck. So extracting a brain from a companion is a surefire way to get a tier three brain, even if we don't have high enough science skill. After installing everything and activating the robot, we learn that the sink ratio is 75%. And talking with SkyNet, he has limited dialogue. When we take him with us, he says, follow him, remember, remember, new, come, remember us. But our options are limited. We can make him stay here. If we ask him what weapons he uses, he says, March hand guns, rifles, shot guns. If we ask him to wait, he says, wait team. But if we saved all four brains, we find an option to retrieve the cybernetic brain we read about on the holotape. It did survive. Brain activity is off the charts. By the look of it, the signals are of both digital and human origin. After retrieving it, we can inspect it in our inventory. We see that it looks different, lots of wires and lights on it, a human brain that has been enhanced by the addition of electronic and robotic attachments. It weighs eight pounds. Then taking it back to level three, if we install everything correctly, and then activate the robot, initiating startup sequence, power levels nominal, program interrupted, downloading, and SkyNet springs to life, talking with him. SkyNet thinks the human, SkyNet wishes to ask favor, SkyNet wishes to travel with human. If we take him with us, SkyNet will travel with you and collect data. You wish to interact with SkyNet. And we see that we have many more options with him. All the flexibility of a fully fledged companion. What weapons can you use, SkyNet? SkyNet has limited knowledge of weaponry. Dataless contains general knowledge of use and operation of small rifles and large end guns. And with the cybernetic brain version of SkyNet, we find an option to initiate auto repair sequence. At knowledge, SkyNet can fully repair himself outside of combat without wasting stimpacks on him. The drawback is, since he's a robot and can't use stimpacks, there's no way to heal him in combat. Do you have any other skills? Sandwich primary purpose is research. Sandwich would do well with any problem requiring a scientific approach. So just like Vic can hop in if our repair skill is too low and Lenny can hop in if our doctor skill is too low, SkyNet can hop in if our science skill is too low. But this is completely wasted. Since to even get the cybernetic brain to begin with, requires us having a huge science skill. If we tell him to leave our party, SkyNet will continue to collect data by self. SkyNet thanks the human for spending freedom. SkyNet is a pretty decent companion. Frustratingly, if we explore his combat options and ask him to equip his best weapon, the interface doesn't update. But he can still use pistols and rifles. Immediately after this, I equipped him with a sniper rifle, and he did great. Another drawback is that people of the wasteland consider his arms to be weapons. So if we're exploring a place like NCR that requires everyone in the party to have weapons holstered with SkyNet in our party, they'll eventually turn hostile, thinking that he's armed. Because he has arms. So we have to leave SkyNet behind when exploring those kind of places. We can't give him armor though. His built-in armor is no better than Metal Armor Mark II. So even at this point in my gameplay, with all my companions wearing combat armor, SkyNet is underarmored compared to everyone in my party. But this may not be too big of a problem if I use him as a sniper. But with that, we have fully explored the Sierra Army Depot. We can now return to Orville Wright to tell him about it. Now we could have completed this quest much earlier. He only asked us to open a door for him. So once we blew open the door with the howitzer and then entered once, we could have immediately turned back and gone back to New Reno to complete the quest. But we also don't lose anything by completely exploring and looting the Sierra Army Depot. Even if we take all of the weapons and ammunition back with us, when we return to New Reno and talk with Orville Wright, he says, Ah, it's you. You got some good news for me? You'll find a way into that army base? And if we at least blasted up in the door and took one step inside, we find an option to say, Yes, I managed to get inside and found a lot of old weapons and military hardware there. It's all there for the taking. Now, about my payment. And Orville Wright's eyes gleam. You done good, Oxorn? Go to the Caspa in New Reno Arms. Tell them you're from me, and they'll set you up. You're family now, a made man, and all of Reno's gonna know it. Thanks, Mr. Wright, we can say. If I'm a made man, then I'd like to be called, and we now see the same list of names that we can choose upon becoming a made man for any of the families. This time we'll go ahead and go with, uh, Gooch. Sounds nice? Gooch. I like it. I like it. It's got style. Now, you stop on by the Caspa in New Reno Arms, and they'll take care of you. You need free Hooch? Head on by the train station too. I'll set you up. Thanks, we can say. I'll do that. Stepping outside the door, we can tuck with Keith. Thanks for finding out who killed Richard Oxhorn. We owe you a big, and the rights always pay their debts. What can I do for you? Hey, Keith, we can say. I, uh, ran into your mom. Uh, what about her? Has she gotten herself into trouble again? No, we can say. Is that a common occurrence? Sometimes, he says. She is always preaching and hollering about the evils of drink and gambling, and damn near everything else. Causes quite a stir sometimes, gets dad real upset. I'll bet we can say. Well, thanks for talking with me, Keith. He appears not to know that we convinced Mrs. Wright to destroy the booze still, beneath the train station, which makes me wonder if Orville Ride even knows that his still is broken. He's heading back to Mr. Wright. He smiles when he sees us. Gooch, everyone treating you all right? No problems? Sure, we can say. How are things with you, Mr. Wright? And he says, Angry. Hell yeah. Some low-down son of a gun destroyed one of my stills. Don't know how the hell he pulled it off, but, well, we can say those old machines break down all the time. I don't think anyone did it on purpose. Very unlikely. And he nods. Probably nothing. Oh, well, he says. Sure, we can say. Oh, well, I was just stopping by, Mr. Wright. You take care, sir. Headin' out, we can talk with his wife. Thanks for your help, Oxhorn. I'll make sure Family Wright keeps to the straighten narrow from now on. Well, I'm not sure we did the best thing by a writing out Mr. Wright to Mrs. Wright for. His booze operation. I'm sure we'll find out the ramifications to that choice during the game's endings. At any rate, now we're a made man of new Reno. We find the main man slide in the karma section of our Pip Boy. And we see the same text. Only now it says, Made Man Wright. And just like becoming a made man for any of the families, we can check in with the Corsican brothers at the Golden Globes and become a star of some of their video entertainment. And we can go to the Katz Pa to get free service. I wondered when Mr. Wright would send you over, says Miss Kitty with a wink. What's your pleasure today, sir? With SkyNet in our party, we can say, can one of your girls read the dictionary to Robobrain? It stimulates his brain center. And we discovered that this is a rather expensive service. 703 chips. If we agree, SkyNet appears in a room with one of the girls who says, what a badass. But our party members clap in applause. And the chosen one says, wait a go SkyNet. But SkyNet appears to not have any commentary for what just happened. He has no additional dialogue. Then heading to new Reno arms, we can say, my boss Wright told me to stop by and that you would set me up. Eldridge looks us up and down and his tone becomes more respectful. Sure, of course. Let me show you our special stock at a discount, of course. And with that, we gain access to his special inventory, which includes a super sledge. And that's the full story of the Sierra Army Depot and the Wright family from New Reno. That leaves only one thing left to do a new Reno. And that's to assassinate all of the crime bosses. We don't have to. But in my next video, we'll go over the myriad of different ways we can assassinate each of these crime lords. If you don't want to miss that episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. I've been to Project Purity. Confound your friends and family who recognize the Jefferson Memorial, but have no idea what Project Purity is with this brand new shirt. This new design comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find it on other products as well, like smartphone cases, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do when you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a member here on YouTube or a patron on Patreon. Members get access to a membership badge that appears by their name in the YouTube comments, and unique ox emojis they can use in the chat of my YouTube live streams. Patreon supporters gain access to exclusive channels on my Discord server, but more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.