Think of the a In our last episode, we followed the trail of our father to Rivet City. There we found a scientist named Madison Lee, who told us that our father came back to visit her to ask for her help we starting something called Project Purity. She told him no. At last she heard he had gone back to the old Project Purity Lab at the Jefferson Memorial. After clearing the Jefferson Memorial of super mutants, we discovered that we just missed him. We have hollow temps talking about trying to restart this project and that the key might lie with the Garden of Eden Creation Kit or Geck. He discovered that the creator of the Geck, a Vault-tec scientist, named Dr. Strennyslaus Braun, had been assigned to nearby Vault 112 just before the bombs dropped. And so hoping he could find some of Dr. Strennyslaus Braun's research, Dad left for Vault 112. He said that it was somewhere west of Evergreen Mills, well hidden in some sort of garage. Now heading to Evergreen Mills to get there is probably a bad idea. The fast travel marker for Evergreen Mills is right outside the structured door, but the mills are surrounded by a ushipped hedge of rock. So if we fast travel here, we have to walk east to ways before we can turn back around to continue west to look for this garage. And if we haven't discovered Evergreen Mills yet, well that's a completely different topic. I covered Evergreen Mills in a dedicated video that you can watch here. At any rate, if we do find the road heading west from Evergreen Mills, eventually we see a familiar rocket shape off in the distance. A red rocket refueling station. And right next to it is a building. Could this be a garage? Sure enough as we approach we discover Smith Casey's garage. It's a stack of ruined cars and trucks piled up in front of the garage. And the red rocket coolant station is just outside. We find the door inside on the southeastern corner of the building. We arrive in a lobby. There are a few rad roaches lying around. And Sharon goes crazy over some mull rats. But then he walks off into the garage. Sounds like he heard something, but there's nothing in the garage. Oh well, heading back into the lobby we can loot the place. There's a mattress behind the counter with a skeleton on it. We find a trunk nearby with some darts and an open safe with a copy of Tumblr's today inside and a lunchbox lying on top. In the northeastern corner we find a Nukakola Quantum and we can loot more Nukakola from the Seoul Nukakola machine. As it for the lobby, heading into the garage, we find a first aid kit on the wall next to some shelves, a ruined lone wanderer motorcycle, a stack of ruined cars, and a couple of gun cabinets filled with ammunition. Sharon and Dogmead keep pacing back and forth by the western wall. Would he want patrol, Sharon? But then we see it, a switch against the wall. Damn it! That must have been one surprise to mull rat. Getting down the stairs we can kill more mull rats. We arrive at the top of a staircase. Heading down the stairs we find the door to Vault 112. This doesn't look like a vault door. On the other side we go down another staircase, down a hallway and through a door to the south. And there it is. Vault 112. What was Vault Tech doing hiding a vault beneath an automotive garage in gas station? We see a few human bones outside, and when ready we can flip the switch to the Vault Door Control Pod. Oh and it's Vault 101 all over again. We worked so hard to leave that dog on vault, and here we are tiptoeing into another one. Why James did you have to come here? So if he did come here, did he close the door behind him? Unless he's already gone, and he closed the door when he left. Heading inside we see that it has the typical layout of a capital wasteland vault. Turning west we find a control room with a bunch of consoles, but nothing there. So moving east we open a door to go down a hallway and open another door. A Robobrain? Welcome to Vault 112 resident, according to sensors you have arrived 202.3 years behind schedule. Please redress in your Vault Tech issued Vault 2 before proceeding. If you have misplaced your suit, I am authorized to distribute a new one. Once dressed please proceed down the stairs to the main floor so that you may enter your assigned tranquility lounger. A tranquility lounger is available. Please be seated. Oh it thinks we are a Vault 112 resident, and she wants us to go where? To a tranquility lounger? She gave us a Vault 112 jumpsuit, it's pretty typical, grants us plus two to melee and plus two to speech, and it looks like the other vault suits we found in the game, but with 112 on the back and 112 on the color. Once we are appropriately dressed, we can walk around the Robobrain, but she won't talk with us. She keeps telling us to go to this tranquility lounger. Opening the door we go down a flat of stairs to arrive at a hallway. We can go left or right, we see a sign pointing to the clinic to the right, since our dad is a doctor, perhaps he went there. Moving towards the clinic? Oh, this is the Vault Atrium, but what is in the middle? We see pods of some sort, what is that? Cryogenic pod or virtual reality? Opening the door to the right we arrive at the clinic, we find some cigarettes and a locker, which of course makes sense, and a stash of bottle caps in another, but nothing else in the clinic, no sign of dad. Although against the Northern Wall we find a countertop with a bunch of invisible Vault 112 jump suits, which we can add to our collection. Heading out of the clinic and turning right, we find another clinic, more lockers against the Southern Wall, where we find a Sudavricon armor and a stack of darts. There are some men tats on a table, and a first aid box on another table, but that's it for this level, but we see another platform on the other side of the Atrium. Moving out, we see a staircase leading down to the west that probably leads to the Atrium, so we'll go there last. Turning east for now, we can open the Southern Door on the eastern end to explore this other side of the upper platform. Here we find a path to the Overseer's office. Following it, we find the Overseer's office down a hallway to the right, but when we activate the door it says this door is activated elsewhere. There's a wall mounted terminal to the right, but it requires a key. Did James make it in? Who has the key? Following this hallway, we find a staircase leading down and a door that opens up to the Atrium level. Here we find those strange pods, but before we explore that room, I want to go back up to make sure I explored everything above the lower Atrium level. So passing the Overseer's office back to the balcony overlooking the Atrium, we can head north to the hallway and take the staircase down. Sure enough, this leads to a door that brings us out to the Atrium, okay? So this really is all there is to this vault. It's just this one big Atrium. Though we do find a few doors on this level. Against the eastern wall, we find an equipment room. We can access it by hacking the hard-locked wall mounted terminal. Vault 112 Security Stockpile Access, no unauthorized personnel inside the security zone. We can choose to open the Vault-Tech access hatch and the door slides open. This leads to the equipment room and we find quite a stash. Recon armor in a locker to the left, a suit of combat armor, three lockers over, and the password to the Overseer's room lying on a table next to a laser rifle and some microfusion cells. Taking a look at the password in our Pip Boy, we see that it's OX-O-F-E-O-B-142. Which probably doesn't mean anything. In the southeastern corner we find four more lockers, which contain bottle caps and some scrap. The assault rifle, with some 5.56mm ammunition on one table and a stack of frag grenades on another. The final table has some cans. Medics, jets, psycho, a bunch of Stimpaks, and a first aid kit to loot. Well since we're here, let's inspect these pods before we go upstairs to check out the Overseer. In this first pod we see a person, a woman, a bald woman, sitting there motionless. She is wearing a Vault 112 suit, but she seems preoccupied. Maybe entranced? Directly in front of her pod is a terminal. Lounge your monitor, subject P-Newsbound. Lounge your 37, Moddered Station Resident 375 P-Newsbound. We find two options. Under Display Resident status, we learn that she has a pulse of 82 beats per minute. The temperature of 97.9 degrees Fahrenheit and a respiratory rate of 19 breaths per minute. Alright, so to put this all into context, the average body temperature is 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit, but a normal temperature can range between 97.8 degrees and 99.1 degrees. So at 97.9 degrees, she is within normal range. The blood pressure there is comprised of two numbers. The left number, 121, measures the pressure in the arteries when the heart beats and pushes blood. The second number, the 80, measures pressure in the arteries when the heart rests between beats. Anything below 120 over 80 is healthy for a normal adult. Now this P-Newsbound is 121 over 80. I mean that's really close to normal, but technically she's in pre-hypertension. But it's not really a cause for concern. Hypertension, however, would be a cause for extreme concern, but you don't reach hypertension until you get to 140 over 90 or higher. So I think she's okay. Now a normal pulse rate is anywhere between 60 and 80 beats per minute. Now this P-Newsbound is at 82 beats per minute, which is slightly higher than the average, but women do tend to have a faster pulse rate than men, and we saw from the pod that this was a woman. Her heart rate is a bit fast, but it's so close to 80 that again, I don't think it's that much of a cause for concern. And the respiratory rate is right where it should be. A normal respiratory rate for adults who are resting is between 12 and 20 breaths per minute. At 19, this P-Newsbound is doing just fine. In the next one, we can display the resident stress level. Stress level, nominal. Oh, well that's good news then. Right? And do you think it's good to have all of these people been sitting here since before the bomb dropped? In the next one, we find a bald man. According to the terminal, this is G-Newsbound. Strangely, the terminal also calls this, lounger 37, even though the resident ID changes to 374. Residence status looks good, very similar to the woman's, and the stress level is nominal. So we got two happy campers here. In the next one, a bald man, this is W-Foster. Same lounger number again. Maybe that's the model of this lounger. But the resident ID is very different. 906 Foster W. His status looks great, very human. And the stress level is nominal. In the next one over. Oh. This one's broken. Well, what exactly happens when a tranquility lounger breaks? Does the person wake up and walk away or are they disposed of? The monitor across from this one says unoccupied. Residence 642 unoccupied. Voting. Mechanical malfunction detected. Please schedule maintenance. Under status unoccupied. Stress level unoccupied. So this did malfunction. In the next one over, we find a bald woman again. This is M Simpson. Wait, M Simpson? Marge? N-E-D-2-2-7. But under status, we see that her pulse is 92 beats per minute. With a blood pressure of 150 over 80. 98.9 degrees Fahrenheit. OK. But then a respiratory rate of 20 breaths per minute. Then when we inspect her stress level, elevated. Why is this woman under stress? In the next one, we find a bald woman. This is M Henderson. This one has no resident ID. OK. That is 82 beats per minute. Blood pressure 110 over 70. Temperature 98.3. And then respiratory rate. 13 breaths per minute. Stress level nominal. She's doing OK. Moving to the next one, what? What? Dad? What is Dad doing in a tranquility lounger? Hey, James. Can you hear me? We get no response. We can't activate the lounger. We can't open it up. Taking a look at the monitor. Subject unknown. Lounge number 23. Oh, this one does have a different number. But resident ID unknown. Warning unverified resident status. Please check logs. Under resident status, pulse rate 84. Blood pressure 120 over 85. Temperature 98.8 degrees Fahrenheit. Respiratory rate. 19 breaths per minute. Warning. Possible program corruption. Unable to verify resident ID. Please consult a supervisor. And then under resident stress level. Elevated. Why is Dad under stress? Is he being hurt? Next to this, we find a bald woman again. This is T-dithers. Lounge number is back up to 37. This is resident ID 642. Warning inconsistent readings. Please check pod connections. Whoa. Is this pod malfunctioning? Under resident status, pulse rate 80 beats per minute. Blood pressure error. Temperature 0. Respiratory rate 5 breaths a minute. Warning anomaly detected. And under stress level. Extreme warning resident requires medical attention. What is going on with T-dithers? But I guess the more pertinent question is what is going on with her pod? It doesn't seem to be malfunctioning. All the bits and pieces are here, but something is clearly wrong. The overseer. We've got to put a stop to this. Let's go up and have a chat. But before we do, let's inspect the final few loungers. The one next to T-dithers is empty. Lounge or monitor unoccupied. This is lounger 11, and we don't get any standards of stress level, because no one's inside. Right next to this is a bald man. This is our rock well. Residence ID 226. Pulse rate 85. Blood pressure 140 over 90. Respiratory rate 22 breaths per minute. And resident stress level elevated. In the next one over, we find a woman, J. Rockwell. Residence ID 115. Pulse rate 87. Blood pressure 140 over 85. Temperature 98.2 degrees. Respiratory rate 18 per minute. Stress level elevated. Another one. And the one next to this. A man. This is T-newsbound. Residence ID 377. Pulse rate 112. Blood pressure 130 over 90. Temperature 98.9 degrees. Respiratory rate 22 breaths per minute. But despite all of that, stress level nominal. All right, something we're going on here. That's every resident in each of the Tranquility loungers. Half of the people plugged in here are under enormous amounts of stress, including our dad. It's almost as if some of these poor people are being tormented. We've got to have a talk with this overseer. Heading south, we can open a door, go down a hallway, and up a staircase to the top level. We can follow this around back towards the overseer's office. We can use the key we found in the equipment room to access the computer. Vault 112 overseer access. Welcome, Dr. Braun. Open Vault-Tech access hatch. Opening for you, Dr. Braun. What? The door slides up, and we find another Tranquility lounger. This one has a welcome mat on the ground with daisies on it. And when we activate it, we can't open it. Braun. Hey, wake up there, Braun. You have my dad. We can't hear us. Turning around, we do see a wall safe. Locked with an easy lock, perhaps this has a key. But no, inside all we find is a pistol, some bottle caps, ammo, and money. Searching the rest of his room, we find a locker with some bottle caps, a desk with a new Coca-Cola, at a suitcase with some darts. No key, no way to open this pod. Hey, get out of there, Braun. We need to have a talk. No. Nothing. Well, I guess there's nothing for it. Our dad is stuck in the Tranquility lounger, plugged into and joined with whatever else these poor people are. Our only option is to climb into the one vacant Tranquility lounger and see if we can find a way to join him accessing the hatch. The slide's open, climbing into the seat. We arrive in a town? What is this, a TV show? Oh, a guy walks by, Bill Foster would wait, be Foster. That was one of the names on the terminals. Are we all in this together? Hey, there's Sport. Beautiful day, isn't it? Say, you should go talk to Betty. She's waiting for you over on the playground. Have fun, Sport. Betty, who the heck is Betty? And why would she be waiting for me? What do you do in calling me Sport? I'm 19 years old. Whoa, they're all way taller than me. Wait a minute, I'm a kid. Why am I a kid? George Newsbaum, Gene Newsbaum, another name on one of the monitors. His stress level was nominal. He sits down on the bench that we presumably were sitting on and we can ask him a few questions. Well, hi there. Have you seen my dad? Nope, afraid not. Don't you worry about it, though. You'll find him. Nice day, isn't it? Of course it is. It's America, isn't it? Another perfect Saturday afternoon. Make sure you enjoy it, Sport. What can you tell me about the neighborhood? You mean besides how wonderful it is to live here? Everyone's very friendly, even old lady Dithers, though she's lost most of her marbles. Dithers was the name of the person who was under extreme stress. And he says she lost her marbles. This is what some kind of computer simulation? Sounds like you've been spending too much time with your nose and those darned comic books, Sport. Uh, I have to go now. Take care now. We can ask every person we'll meet that same list of questions, which I know is repetitious, but every person has a different response. And so for the sake of being thorough, we'll cover them all. Not to find this Betty, heading towards the middle of town. We see a playground here and a little dog. Looks like the dog's name is Doc. Good doggy. Take a hike, Matt. Oh, he doesn't like that. Okay, doggy. And standing by the slide, watering some flowers is a young girl named Betty. Oh, someone knew to play with. What good luck I have lately. I was just starting to get bored. Oh, we're going to have so much fun. And you are? I'm Betty. I live here on Tranquility Lane. Want to play a game? Where am I? This is Tranquility Lane. We all live here and now so do you. What? I don't live here. You do now. You live here until I say you don't. I know. Why don't we play a game? A game? Is that it? Is this some kind of game? Do you like games? I love to play games. I know a really fun game we can play. Sure, kid. Whatever you say. That's right. It is whatever I say. Boy, you learn fast. Hey, I know. Let's play a fun game. I'm just here looking for my father. Have you seen him? Gee, I don't know. What's he like? Look, I know he is in here. I mean, in the vault. You mean the man that came here is your daddy? And you're only here because you're looking for him? Oh, this is just too much fun. We're going to have such a good time. Let's play right now. He's an older guy, around 50 or so. And he's new here, too, isn't he? Oh boy, he's your daddy, huh? I had no idea. That makes us even more fun. Let's play. He's a scientist. He's looking for Dr. Brong. That's your daddy? Oh, we're going to have so much fun. This is going to be the best game ever. No games. You tell me where my father is now, you little brat. Oh, don't be mean. That's not a good way to start. I said we're going to play a game, so that's what we're going to do. Look, kid, I'm not interested in playing games. I said I want to play a game. No thanks. No games for me. You don't get to say no. If I want to play a game, you're going to play, and I want to. Look, let me just look around a bit. I'll be back later. But I want to play now. Can we play now? I've been waiting. I've been ever so patient. A game? Okay, I guess. I knew you would. It's a really simple game. All you have to do is make Timmy Newsbaum cry. Timmy Newsbaum? Tee Newsbaum? Who's that? He's the only other kid that lives here besides you. He's a big crybaby. You'll see. Make him cry. And then come back here so we can talk some more. What kind of game is this? It'll be funny. Come on. You'll see. What? That's crazy. No, Timmy's the one who's crazy. You'll see. That's it. I can do that. You can. I guess we'll see. Huh. Good luck. With that, we go off to complete our task. And we get the impression that Betty knows she's in a simulation. She was vaguely threatening towards us and said we can't leave. And maybe if we play along for a moment, we can get some answers from her. We find Timmy manning his lemonade stand on the sidewalk to the northwest. And he's just a little kid. But Tee Newsbaum, whom we saw in his pod, was an adult and his stress level was nominal. So we're in a simulation and our avatars don't necessarily represent who we are in real life. I suppose that explains why even though we're 19 years old, we're only a child here. Hi there. I'm Timmy. Wanna play? Have you seen my dad? Your dad? Nope. I haven't. Did he get lost? What can you tell me about the neighborhood? It's okay, I guess. I don't really have nobody to play with. I've started for Betty. And she's kind of...well...she's mean. Betty says I should make you cry. What? No, she didn't. Did she? I don't like her. She's creepy. And she laughs at stuff that isn't funny. Man, this is real. It's all some crazy experiment. What? You're weird. Uh, buy it to me. See you later. We did have a speech option there, but before we actually make him cry, let's explore his family home, opening a nice white, picket fence gate. We can head into his front lawn. There are milk bottles by the steps. At a door mat, very similar to the real one we found in the Overseers office, and we can open a door to the Newsbaum Residence. On the side we find a small but beautifully wall-papered little house. There are lots of paintings all over the walls, and standing next to us is the woman of the house, Pat Newsbaum. Her stress level was nominal too, so the whole Newsbaum family is pretty relaxed. Good day to you. What can you tell me about your son, Timmy Newsbaum? Timmy? Oh, he's a good boy. George and I are so proud of him. I don't care what Mabel says. I don't think military school would do him any good at all. I have half a mind to give her that brochure back, and tell her just what she can do with it. A brochure about military school? Okay. Have you seen my dad? No, sweetie, I have it. I'm sure he'll come looking for you before long, though. Nice day, isn't it? It sure is, but it always is here. What can you tell me about the neighborhood? Well, George and I have been here. Why, as long as I can remember. This is a pretty convincing simulation, huh? What? Oh, sweetie. Maybe you should just run along and play. All right, I have to go now. Have a great day. Heading upstairs, we find a bathroom, but not a lot of clutter. There is a floating drink class. Glitch in the matrix, I guess. Heading into one of the bedrooms. Wow. A bed and a dresser. Presumably this is Timothy's, but no toys. No personal effects at all. And then the master bedroom, similar situation. One tiny dresser, one nightstand. Really no personal effects. Heading downstairs, we can move into the kitchen. On the table, we find a piece of paper. Military school brochure. This brochure promotes the Hoffman Training Academy, with the tagline turning the delinquents of tomorrow into the leaders of tomorrow. Oh, so it was a military school? Test with reforming rebellious youths. Oh my gosh, sounds like a wonderful place. But opening it up in our Pip-Boy to read it. Oh, that's right. We're in a simulation. We don't have the Pip-Boy. This watch is great, though. I love that watch. Just as we're about to leave, we overhear a conversation. How are you today? Oh, I was just looking at the new Robco catalog. I'm impressed with things they're doing these days. It's one of the great things about living here. She's been talking to Timmy again. I want him to stay away from her. She's nuts, and she shouldn't be anywhere near him. All right, I'll talk to him about it. She's harmless anyway. Just old and senile. Oh, for a minute there, I thought they were talking about Betty, but no. They're talking about someone else. George leaves and Timothy comes in, but just as we're about to leave. You, you don't belong here. You're not supposed to be here. It's not real, not of it. It needs to end. The suffering must end. Get away from me, you crazy old bat. You're the only one who can end it. You must end it, don't you see? You're the only one who can disable the fail safe. What are you talking about? You're not making any sense. All this, it's all fake. Made up a dream world, only the dream never ends. I wanted to end for all our sakes. He keeps us here, so he can laugh and feel good about himself. But I know. I know what he's doing, and I know he uses the fail safe. Finally, someone who knows what's going on. How do I get out of here? We're not really here. We're not really talking. It's all made up. We believe we're sleeping, dreaming. The dream became a nightmare. It has to end. It just has to. But we're not in charge. He is. And he doesn't want us to wake up. Who are you talking about? He calls himself Betty now, but he's still the same. He can put on a new face all he likes, but underneath he's still evil. Braun. Astrid thinks because he helped create this place. He's God here. But I know he still uses the fail safe terminal. I know it. You're crazy. Get away from me. You can't fool me. You know I'm right. You know none of this is real. How come you're the only one who seems to know this? Don't know. Can't sleep sometimes. Here are voices. My own skin doesn't feel right. None of this is right. You've got to believe me. You've got to find that fail safe. What fail safe? What the hell are you talking about? It's in the abandoned house. He doesn't want us going in there because he's afraid we might find it. It's the only terminal to the outside. The only way to shut the whole thing down. You've got to find it. Ooh, and just as quickly as she arrived, she disappears. Old lady dithers. George and Pat don't want their son Timothy talking with her because they think she's crazy. But she's the only one who seems to be aware of what's going on here. And we know that there was something wrong with her tranquility lounger. It couldn't read her blood pressure or her temperature. Her stress level was extreme. And now we know why. She knows that she's in a simulation. And she appears to be the only one. And dithers told us that Betty is actually Dr. Braun. No wonder Betty seemed to know exactly where she was and to think that she was in control. She is. She's the overseer of the vault. The creator of the geck. The creator of this simulation. Now that we've explored his family home, we have a number of options. And we're ready to talk with Timothy. Hi. Wanna play? To get him to cry, we can convince him that his parents are gonna ship him off to military school. To grow up around a bunch of delinquents. We can try to lie. Hey, look what I found. You're getting sent to military school. What? You know I'm not? Nah, I'm just kidding. That's a dumb joke. You're not funny at all. Or we can show him the brochure that we found on the dining room table. Look, I've got the brochure right here. You're going, pal. But I don't want to go away. I don't want to leave my mommy. And with that we lose karma and Timmy cries. No, no. If we choose this method, when we check in with Betty at the playground. Yay, you did it. Good job. A clever approach. I'm not sure I would have considered it. Very encouraging. Oh, and that voice dichotomy there is creepy as I'll get out. But there are other ways to make Timmy cry. We can murder Timothy's parents. Hello? If we do, Timothy races to the corpse of his dead parent. Daddy, no, no. If we chose this method, you did it. I knew you could. And a particularly brutal way to deal with it, at that very effective. Or we could pass a speech check to say, hey, I heard your parents are getting a divorce because of you. What? Did I do something bad? They've never loved you. In fact, they both hate you and wish you were dead. No, no, no. Now my mommy and daddy know. They know what you did and they're leaving you here all alone. I won't want to bed again. I promise. I promise. Sorry, Timmy. I just thought you should know. No, no. Now my mommy and daddy know. If we chose this method, yay, I knew you could do it. Perhaps not the most inventive approach, but persuasion can be quite powerful. And finally, we can attack Timmy. He has a child and we can't kill children and fall on three, at least not directly like this, so he never explodes in a bloody mess. But a few punches is all it takes to get him to cry. And if we chose this method, you sure showed him, didn't you? I suppose it wasn't the most cerebral way to deal with it's situation, but it was definitely effective. Consider the game one. Hanvesat, you win the prize. Your prize is one question which I will answer to the best of my ability. In the game, we can only have him answer one of these questions after completing this task and we gain access to the other ones after completing other tasks. But his answers to each of the questions are a little bit different as we progress through his tasks. So we'll go over his responses to each of the questions, each time we complete one of his quests. The questions and answers may seem a tad redundant, but we will be learning new information each time. How do I get out of here? An interesting choice. Certainly not what I had anticipated. Simply put, you live when I say so. This place is under my control and I dictate the terms. If I decide to let you go, you may go. You can't do this to me on the contrary. I believe you'll find that here I can do almost anything I like. What is this place? Tranquility Lane is a simulation, a reality designed to play home to the Denizens of Alt 112. It was my last and greatest project. I'm quite grateful that I was placed directly in charge of it. There have been unexpected benefits to living here. What kind of benefits? Uh-uh-uh! That's another question. And you've already had your answer for now. If you want more, you'll have to prove your worth my time. Continue to amuse me. And I may answer more questions. So you're in charge here? Isn't it obvious by now? You've only been here a short while and you're already doing just as I ask. And now we come to your next game. You're not going to succeed. And there may be something in it for you. If you're in charge, get me the hell out of here. Haha, you're not really in a position to be demanding anything. Are you? Still, you've proven amusing Zosfar. Let's see if you can keep it up. Just who are you? I was known as Dr. Stanislav Braun. But here I choose this identity. Do you find it unsettling? In this place, I can choose to be whatever I wish. And this is what I have chosen. You will find that I control a great deal around here. Why the hell would you want to look like a little girl? Why not? I've been in this place for 200 years. This is something to keep me amused. Much like my willingness to entertain your questions. Though now I grow bored. So I think I shall set you to a new task. You're out of your dag on mind. You know that right? Ah, come now. Would you call death so brazenly? I suggest you think twice before insulting me again. Now, there are things for you to do. If you're in control here, can you please help me? But I am helping you. I am answering questions. More than the one original question I granted you I might add. And now I think this time you do something for me. Where's my father? Your father? He's a scientist. He's looking for Dr. Braun. Oh my, what a splendid turn of events. I had no idea the two of you were related. Yes, I have indeed seen him. I'm afraid he's rather unavailable at the moment. He looks like me but older. And, male, he's got to be here. Well now, doesn't this just change everything? I should have suspected there was some reason behind my recent good fortune. Perhaps you'll get to see him in time. Look, I know he's in here. I mean, in the fault. Your father? Oh, I had no idea. This is simply too rich. He's the reason you came here. I mistakenly assumed you had simply blundered in here on your own. Well, this certainly changes things, doesn't it? I dare say it gives you a whole new level of motivation to avoid angering me. What have you done to him? Where are you? I'd be more concerned with myself at the moment. Don't be sides. We're done with questions for now. Perhaps we'll address it at a later time. First, I have something else for you to do. I want to see him now. Hmm, no, no. I don't think so. We haven't yet plummed the depths of your ability to amuse me. I think you'll do a few more things for me first. What do I have to do to see him? Ah, now that is just the sort of question you should be asking. You understand that I am in control then. Excellent. You are far more promising than your father. Timmy was easy and therefore boring. I desire some real entertainment. No, I'm not doing anything else for you. Then once again, we find ourselves at an impasse. How disappointing. This leaves us an esticky spot. And if we can't find another solution, we have to come back to him. Are we willing to be reasonable now? I ask so very little of you. No, I said I wouldn't do it. And I meant it. Well then, we have a little else to say to one another. I don't really have a choice, do I? Say it's always a choice. Sometimes it's just easier to make. Fine, I'll do it. I'm glad you've chosen to be cooperative. Let's just get this over with. I'm glad you've chosen to see reason. Again, I present you with a simple little job. The Rockwells have a seemingly happy marriage. I'd like you to put an end to it. The only caveat is that you may not kill either of them in the process. I look forward to seeing what you capable of. Pay a visit to the Rockwells. They are very happily married. And I'd like you to change that. Put an end to their marriage. And we'll talk. What? You want me to end their marriage? No, I won't do that to them. Then I'm afraid we have nothing more to say to one another. Fine. But it's only because I want more answers from you. Rationalize it anywhere you'd like. If you succeed, we'll continue our discussion. Visit the Rockwells. Observe their happy marriage. And then destroy it. But don't kill them. That would spoil the fun. Ha, that's it. No problem. Excellent. I so enjoy that can-do spirit. What a Creetan. That looks like we have to track down the Rockwells. Incidentally, after this point, Braun turns Timothy into a garden gnome. He's gone from Islam and Edestand. And we don't find him in the house. We find him as a garden gnome on the doorstep to his house. There's just no explanation for this other than it's simply amused, Dr. Braun. The Rockwell House is directly to the left of the news bomb house. Inside we see that it looks identical to the news bomb house. For the staircase, maybe on the other side, with the wallpapers the same, the paintings are the same. These poor people are living in identical houses. We find the men of the house, Roger Rockwell. His stress level was elevated. Well, hi there. Have you seen my dad? He disappeared on you, huh? Don't worry, I'm sure you'll find him soon. Nice day, isn't it? You won't find a day like this anywhere else. What can you tell me about the neighborhood? Heck of a place to live. Janet and I, well, we're quite happy here. None of this is real. It's all some crazy experiment. Sure sport, whatever you say. Betty wants me to break up your marriage. Now that's not funny. Not one bit. Anything you want to tell me about your marriage? Now see here. It's not anything for you to be asking about. Our marriage is our business and it's private. Why can't people just understand that and just leave us alone? Uh, I have to go now. Bye bye. Ooh, bit of a touchy issue with Roger. Why would he be so sensitive to someone asking him about his marriage? But here we find something we don't find in any of the other houses. A rusting metal door leading to the basement. And inside the basement we don't see anything. Some music stands. A red-rider tricycle and a bunch of empty boxes on a shelf. Some larger though I guess you don't have to eat in a simulation. We do find a desk in the corner, but if we activate it, we get a message. You have nothing interesting to place on the desk at this time. Ooh. Now what could we place on a desk? Heading out of the basement, we bump into the woman of the house, Janet Rockwell. Her stress level was also elevated. Well, hi there. Have you seen my dad? Your dad? No I haven't. I'm sure he's around here somewhere. What can you tell me about the neighborhood? Roger suggested we move here. I don't quite remember when that was. It's very nice. We're doing quite well. Yeah, you sound like you are. None of this is real. It's all some crazy experiment. Oh, you're such a kidder. Betty wants me to break up your marriage. What? That's a ridiculous thing to say. You kids need to find some different games to play. Is there anything you want to tell me about your marriage? Our marriage? Well, goodness. What kind of a question is that? Mabel didn't put you up to this, did she? What a silly thing to ask about. Ooh. Who's Mabel? I think we're getting somewhere here. Now at any time, we can pass a speech check to say, I hate to break it to you. And I saw your husband kissing some other woman. It's that Martha Simpson, isn't it? I know it. That's it. I've had enough of Roger's lies and bullshit. With that, she marches into the kitchen to confront her husband. Roger, you set up a bitch. Did you really think I wouldn't find out? What? Janet, what are you talking about? Don't you lie to me. Did you honestly think you could skulk around with that whore and no one would see you? Janet, what the hell are you talking about? Well someone saw you in Martha Roger, and I heard about it, so now I know for sure. Who told you that? They're lying. I swear it. You fucking coward. I can't stand the sight of you. Get away from me. With that, she rushes off, and Roger stands dejected. How did it come to this? I just don't understand. If we chase after her, we see her run into the house one over to the left. This is Meabull Henderson's house. She must be a close friend. Here she stands, confused. Why would Roger do such a thing? It doesn't make sense. If we chose this method, when we next check in with Betty, her brawn. Poor Janet and Roger. So you have achieved your goal. My was hoping for something a bit more dramatic, but persuasion appears to be your strong suit. And at least you are cooperative, unlike your father. I was most disappointed when he refused to participate, yet still expected something from me. But there are many other ways to achieve our goal. But first we can try something. Braun said that he wanted us to end their marriage without hurting them. We can see what will happen if we try. And sure enough, if we try to hurt them, we don't make a scratch. We can even pick up this rolling pin we find on the table nearby and go hog wild. But it does no damage. Braun really is in complete control here. But now to find another way to break up their marriage. While exploring the house upstairs, we notice that they sleep in separate beds. Which doesn't necessarily mean something in and of itself. If this were, I love Lucy. And next to Janet's bed, we find Janet Rockwell's diary. I just don't know what to do anymore. When Rogers not in that stupid basement, he's outside sweet-talking that Lucy. Martha Simpson. He claims there's nothing between them, but I know it's all a lie. I found a woman's pendant once on Rogers' workbench. But of course I said nothing. That's me. Janet Rockwell, Prim and proper housewife, living a perfect life here on Tranquility Lane. Someday as I wish I really had beat her to death with that rolling pin. And Roger would now I'm the only girl in the world. Okay. Razzy lady. But we understand now why both of their stress levels were elevated. Roger is likely cheating on his wife. Or at least had an affair with Martha Simpson at one time in the past, which has caused a lot of strain on their marriage. And Janet is suspicious of every woman here on Tranquility Lane. Maybell, Martha? So tell us that she even contemplates murder. But perhaps we can make use of that. With Janet's rolling pin in hand, we can head next door to the Simpson residence. Here lives Martha Simpson. We see her walk indoors. Heading inside, we can try to trek her down. We killed Martha Simpson with Janet's rolling pin. Her blood is all over it. Coming back to the Rockwell home, we can talk with Roger Rockwell. Well hi there. Bad news Roger. Your wife is a psychopath. What? What are you talking about? Janet snapped. She killed Martha in cold blood. Look at this rolling pin. Oh my god. What is that? Is that blood? And brains? Janet did this to Martha? She really did snap didn't she? Look at this. It's her rolling pin covered in blood. Martha's blood. That's crazy. My god. Did she really kill Martha? She's lost her mind. Martha Simpson is dead and Janet killed her. Look, here's her rolling pin. But Janet would never... I mean I know she was upset but I thought she was over it. How could you do this? My god. Janet, what have you done? Why don't Arthur you talking about Roger? How could you? You do that to her. Have you lost your mind? Roger, stop it. You're scaring me. You should be in a sanitarium or a prison. You're out of your damn mind. You just stay away from me. You hear me? And with that we get the full picture. He cheated on her with Martha once before and she caught him or somehow found out. That is what made her so suspicious of her husband's behavior. He thought she was over it. But based on her journal entry she clearly isn't. A fact we just exploited. If we chose this method, quite a clever interpretation of the rules. I'll have to reset the system to restore Martha. But it's well worth the effort. You have taken a far greater interest in these little games than your father did. He found the whole thing beneath him. But there is one more way to end their marriage. If we head over to the Simpson residence, we see that it looks like all the others that same wallpaper. Those same paintings. The same floor plan. But if we head upstairs to Martha's bedroom, we see something on her bed. But before we can grab it. Mabel, I meant to ask you. Have you seen the new Robco catalog? I thought you might be interested. Since you don't seem to like your Mr. Handy. No, no, I don't like robots. Don't like the one I have and don't want a new one. If I didn't rely on the thing so much, I just get rid of it. Really, Mabel? It's fine. There's no reason to feel uncomfortable. It's just another machine. Just the same. I don't trust it. I swear. It watches me sometimes. It's perfectly safe. I'm sure. Everyone here has one. And no one's ever had a problem. How are you, Mabel? Timmy Newsbound left his roller skates in my house again. How many times have I talked to Pat about that? Well, that's not safe, is it? Someone could really get hurt. It's a shame Pat doesn't teach him to be more responsible. I really wish Pat would do something about it. He's a nice boy, but he's just so messy. I'm certainly grateful for everything we have. The conversations between neighbors we can over here here at Tranquility Lane will oftentimes give us clues that we can use to complete Betty's tasks. But back to this one, we can take the Lacey underwear, we find on Martha's bed, and place it on Roger's desk that we found in his basement. We recall from Janet's journal that she had found dependent once here before. Looks like the basement is Roger's only form of privacy. Adding backup stairs, we find Janet in the kitchen. Good day to you. You'd better come down to the basement. There's something you need to see. What were you doing in our basement? What's down there? Oh, nothing. Never mind. Okay. Just trust me. It's important. Okay, if you say so. With that, she becomes a temporary companion. She doesn't head there herself. We have to go there first. But once downstairs, she walks slowly to the desk. What's this? Women's clothing? Down here? What? What the hell is this? So it's not yours? Oops. What is this doing here? Looks like Roger's a fan of women's clothing. But this isn't mine. What is this doing here? Maybe it's is. You know, for him to wear when no one is looking. Oh my God. Roger. He wouldn't, but... Or we can say, well, then I guess he's cheating on you. My God. I know it. I know it. Whichever way we choose to convince her he's cheating, we're to convince her that he's a cross-dresser. She marches upstairs and leaves the house without confronting him. If we choose this option, you have turned out to be quite resourceful, it seems. I am slightly impressed. I enjoy your company far more than your father's. He responded quite negatively to my requests. I did what you wanted. Now you have some explaining to do. You have amused me as far, but I still don't think you're quite in a position to be demanding anything. Still, I suppose you've earned the right to some further answers. What would you ask of me? What is this place? Tranquility lane was designed to be a home away from home and no way of sustaining life after the apocalypse. Vault 112 was the prototype. We never had time to build others. As the designer of the simulation, I was given special access. Everyone else here is only subconsciously aware of the artificial reality around them. Their conscious minds accepted as fact. Why haven't you left after all this time? I have no desire to leave. Here, I feel more powers than I could ever hope to in the outside world. And I use that power to amuse myself. Now, for instance, you will do as I ask yet again because I have power over you. You don't need to stay here. You can live in the real world again. It's a real world. This world is more real than anything outside. My body has been seated in the same chair for two hundred years. It's sustained by machines. For I too so much a stand up, my body would crumble to dust. But here, I've moved beyond that frail physical form. I am so much more here. It's time you do something else for me. Let these people go. There's no reason to keep them here. Oh, but there is. They continue to amuse me. That is purpose enough for their lives, don't you think? You are serving the same purpose after all. I do enjoy having someone new to play with. I'm speaking of playing. Let's try a new game. Now what? To the point, aren't we? I've been having so much fun. I see no reason to stop now, huh? Let's try something new, shall we? Oh great. I'm looking so forward to doing more for your amusement. Your sarcasm is unappreciated. This could be so much fun if you'd allow yourself to see it. Fine. Let's just get this over with. Oh come now. Show some enthusiasm. I got it, mate. This is kind of fun. What can I do next? I am pleased to see I'm not the only one being entertained. You are far more agreeable than your father. If you wish for more than so be it. But let's raise the stakes a bit this time. I'd like you to kill Mabel Henderson. I'm not agreeing to anything before you tell me what it is. Attempting to maintain the illusion of control, are we? How quaint. Very well. I'd like you to kill Mabel Henderson. Do something unique. Something unexpected. Surprise me. Not just any death mind you. But an entertaining well thought out death. You'll see to that. Very simple. Plenty of opportunity to show me what you're capable of. Make it creative. Beating at a death simply won't suffice. No. I won't do that. Still you resist me. And you know that I have the answers you seek. Well, I am not going to beg you. You know that I ask of you. And so you know that you must do to retain my favor. What have you done with my father? Have you met Doc? The dog? He's another no-arrival. Much like yourself. He might seem a bit familiar to you. What? The dog is Dad? Oh. And I suppose we should have known. His name is Doc. Because our father was a doctor. I get it. All this time he's been right here hearing every word. Watching everything we do. I wonder if he's proud of us. I wonder if he's approved of the choices we've made. Tell me more about this place, Bron. The details of this place are far beyond your comprehension. I'm sure. Be content with what you need to know. This is a simulation. And I am in total control. If you wish to see the world again, you'll do as I say. Who are you? If you insist on an answer, then you may better know me as Dr. Stanislos Bron. I've chosen a different appearance for myself here. In my own little playground. You know that I am Dr. Bron. Anything else is irrelevant. Perhaps you should be focusing on your energy on what I've asked of you. Are you through pouting? I said I wouldn't do it and I meant it. Yes, yes. How very noble of you. You'll change your mind eventually. All right, fine. I'll do it. Excellent. I look forward to seeing what you come up with. Remember. Creativity is key. I don't want to do this, but I will. Of course you will. And you never know. You might enjoy it. She'll never see it coming. Music to my ears. So we have to go kill Mabel. But we can't just bludge in her to death. We've got to make it interesting. Oh, what to do? We see Martha walking by. You know, we've killed her once before. Looks like Bron resurrected her. But we never actually had a chance to talk with her. She had an elevated heart rate like the Rockwells. Probably because she was involved in that love triangle, having once had an affair with Roger. Have you seen my dad? I don't think so, but then I haven't really been looking for him. Sorry. Nice day, isn't it? I suppose. I hadn't really noticed. What can you tell me about the neighborhood? I like it well enough, I suppose. Mabel is good company most of the time. And well, the other neighbors are mostly very nice. This is a pretty convincing simulation. Sorry, kiddo, but I'm not in a mood for jokes. And if this quest is active, we find an option to say, what can you tell me about Mabel Henderson? Mabel's a good friend to me. She's always interested in what's going on with my life, which is more than I can say for some people. I'll sometimes go over to her house and chat while she's baking. She really loves to bake. Uses that oven all the time. I have to go now. Have a great day. So, Martha gave us a clue. Mabel likes to bake all the time. I wonder if we can find any more clues by talking with the other residents of town. But first, let's talk with Mabel herself. The Henderson residence is right next to the Simpson one to the left. Heading inside, we see the Mr. Handy we overheard Mabel talking about back at the Simpson home. The headless of the state is in tip-top shape, young Miss. I'm a wonderful day. That's right, we remember her saying that she doesn't like the robot. We find Mabel sitting at her dining room table. Her stress level was nominal. Good day to you. Have you seen my dad? No I haven't. But when I do, I'll tell him you're looking for him. Nice day, isn't it? Well of course it is. What a silly thing to say. What else would it be? What can you tell me about the neighborhood? Well there's certainly never a dull moment. I think it's like any other street really. Always something to see and always something to talk about. What is this? Some kind of computer simulation? Computer what now? Why don't you go find Timmy and have a nice game of catch? I'll be going. Have a great day. So no clues from Mabel. Now Braun said not to make it boring, but we can always try. After beating her to death we can go back outside and see whether or not Braun enjoyed it. As amusing as it may be, you cannot simply wander around killing the residents of Tranquility Lane. I shall have to reset portions of the system to correct this. I can return the people of Tranquility Lane to life, but anything else you have meddled with will stay as it was. Do keep that in mind. So he just brings her back to life? Okay, time for round two. But before heading inside, we'll chat with the other residents of Tranquility Lane to see if we can get any clues. According to the sidewalk, we see Bill Foster walking around. His stress level was nominal. Hi, kiddo. What's the good word? Have you seen my dad? Can't say that I have, kiddo. Don't worry. I'm sure he'll turn up. Nice day, isn't it? Yep. You got that right. Heck of a day to get some work done outdoors. What can you tell me about the neighborhood? Nice place. Real nice. Everyone's friendly and always happy to lend a hand. What can you tell me about Mabel Henderson? Found a vergadgetse she is. Heck, I can't count the number of times I've had to fix that newfangled robot of hers. I keep telling her to order some new parts. Motivator goes bad on that one and she's going to have a real problem on her hands. So there's something wrong with her Mr. Handy's motivator. We'll tuck that nugget away for later. This is a pretty convincing simulation. Is that so? Well, you ought to tell that to my big toe kiddo. Herts like the dickens since I stubbed it earlier today. Feels pretty real to me. I've got to go now. Have a great day. Not every resident has something to say about Mabel, but the next one who does is Janet Rockwell. What can you tell me about Mabel Henderson? Roger and I don't spend much time with Mabel, frankly. She's a little nosy for my taste. And I don't like visiting her house either. That robot she's got makes me nervous. She says it's perfectly safe, but something about it. It just makes me uncomfortable. Ooh, so she's getting bad vibes from the robot. Then talking with George Newsbomb. What could you tell me about Mabel Henderson? She sure loves baking her pies. Always bringing them around, bragging about her fancy oven. I'm not one to turn down a good pie, but it gets a bit tiresome hearing her go on and on. And finally talking with his wife, what can you tell me about Mabel Henderson? Mabel? She's nice enough, I suppose. Bit of a gossip, maybe. And she never seemed too fond of my boy, Timmy. She was just complaining about his roller skates the other day. She said Timmy left them in her house and that they were dangerous. If they're so dangerous, why didn't she just bring them here when she came to complain about it? Dangerous roller skates. An avid baker. A malfunctioning robot. Let's see exactly how we can put this information to good use. Heading back to Mabel's home, we can head into the kitchen where we find her wall mounted computer terminal. We discover that this terminal gives us remote access to the Mr. Handy. When we arrive, we find the security screening disabled. If we initiate the cleaning program, nothing happens. But once the security program is initiated, and if we then disable the security screening parameters, this is totally coming. You have to fight you. The Mr. Handy chases after his master, Mabel, chasing her all the way upstairs, but the house is small. And soon he has her cornered in a room. And then he's going to have to go to the kitchen. And then he's going to have to go to the kitchen. And soon he has her cornered in a room. That's all we've got for the robot. We could race downstairs quickly and disable the robot using the terminal, or we can beat it to death. But after Mabel's dead, we find that the front door is locked, which makes sense. With the robot security parameters disabled, it would wander outside and kill everyone in town. So before we can leave, we have to head back to the computer terminal to discontinue the security program. Once done, we can exit the house. If we chose this method to resolve the situation. Oh, Mabel. Always good for a laugh. Poor Mabel. Killed by her own robot. Our suspect she never saw that coming. Another option is to take advantage of her love of baking. Heading into the kitchen, we can open the nearby oven. This old gas oven could be tampered with to knock the pilot light fixture loose. But that could be really dangerous. We can do nothing. Or we can fiddle with the pilot light. You fiddle with the pilot light and the gas pipe. The smell of gas fills the air. When done, we can head on over to Mabel and ask her to make us a treat. Well, hi there. I heard you bake really tasty pies. Can you make one for me? Well, sure I can, sweetie. Let me just go light the oven to get it warming up. With that, she heads straight for the kitchen. We'll head in to watch the show, but standing back a bit. No! As soon as she touches the oven, the thing explodes. Killing her instantly. If we chose this option... Appliances certainly can be dangerous. Can't they? Next, if we head upstairs, we notice a chandelier that is hanging conveniently close to the stairway. In fact, it's so close that we can reach it. This heavy iron chandelier is supported by an old metal chain. It looks like the chain could be broken, but that could be really dangerous. We can do nothing, or we can fiddle with the chain. Be careful. Several links in the chain snap, but the chandelier doesn't immediately fall. It does look very unstable. Heading downstairs, we can try it ourselves. Nope. Doesn't want to fall. But not long after, Mabel stands up for a walk. How may I serve you, mistress? No! No! Ha! So, if only the robot walked under before her. Well, if we choose to kill her this way, when we next talk with Betty... Well done. Well done. And finally, we remember hearing about how frustrated Mabel was with Timmy. He kept leaving his roller skates all over her house. And in fact, if we head to the top of her stairs, we see a roller skate on the ground. This roller skate is awfully close to the stairs. A simple push could put it in a very dangerous position. We can do nothing, or push the skate. You give the skate a hearty push. And it rolls to the very edge of the stair. Be careful. The roller skate is in a precarious position. The roller skate is in a precarious position at the edge of the stairs. Be careful. With that, it's a waiting game. We wait until Mabel skills the stairs. When she reaches the top... Oh! Okay. Ah, that is one dangerous roller skate. If we choose to kill Mabel in this method, when we next talk with Betty... A roller skate on the stairs? Oh my, that is simply inspired. You are most resourceful, and you certainly do get results. You have exceeded my expectations. And now, we come to the last task that I have for you. Succeed, and you shall be granted what every wish. How do I know you're being honest with me? I think you'll find that I've been quite honest with you thus far. You have no discernible reason to mistrust me. In the dark house, out behind the abandoned home, are a masquerade knife. Don the mask and become the pipe-sized slasher. Use the knife to eliminate all the residents of Tranquility Lane. Oh, the hell is the pipe-sized slasher? He is a figure of myth. Born of old campfire stories. You will make him a reality. The residents will know you, and they will fear you. When they have all been eliminated. Return to me. Why are you doing all of this? Because I can, of course. I have total power here. I may do whatever I wish. And over these many years, I have found that I wish to see others suffer. But these people, they don't deserve to be punished. I am afraid you're not in a position to decide what they do or do not deserve. They are under my control. Not yours. Now, if you're done attempting to change my mind, let's get on with your final task. After completing it, you will be free to go. But you could leave the vault, find somewhere else to live. Are you mad? I've been here for almost 200 years. My body is in no condition to be used for anything. And you're here in tranquility lane. I am as strong and youthful as I care to be. No, no. I think I'll stay here, thank you. And you. You will now do as your toll. The slush of it. Sounds like fun. I thought you might find it amusing. It draws upon an old urban legend. A story told of a campfires many years ago. The residents have all heard this story. And will fear you. Go forth and make me proud. So we've got to find the doghouse and the costume hidden inside. But before we do, we can finish exploring the other houses here in tranquility lane. There are only two houses we haven't explored yet. One belongs to old lady Dithers. We find her puttering around the kitchen. You. You can find it. You're not supposed to be here. He can't stop you. Remember what I told you? The failsafe. You've got to find it. Where did you say the failsafe was? The abandoned house. Keeps that one to himself he does. That's where it is. That's why he doesn't want us in there. Just leave me alone. I'm busy. I'm telling you. This can all end if you find it. That's right, we do have another option. But to continue working with Betty, we first have to find the abandoned house. It's the one with the mailbox that doesn't have a name. Then, looking into the yard, we find the doghouse and inside the slasher knife and the pint-sized slasher mask. Since we can't open our pit boy, we automatically equip the items. We are now ready to strike terror into the hearts of every resident in tranquility lane. They prove to be easy to terrify. Run! No, please! Get away! Oh, God, help! Oh, no. Please, leave me alone. No, please! Ah! No! Ah! No! If we return to Betty without killing absolutely everyone, she says... The pint-sized slasher returns. A commendable start. But you still have work to do. No, please! But if we return to Betty, after having killed every person in tranquility lane... Most enjoyable. Most enjoyable indeed. I haven't felt this exhilarated years. I did what you wanted. Now, let me out. Yes, yes. I suppose you've earned the right to do what you like. I shall miss your company. This has been a simply wonderful time. The door is now open. Through it, you may return to the real world. And whatever inferior existence you have there. That sure was fun. I heard the distinct impression you enjoyed yourself. We are like you and I. Now, you ask for the means to leave tranquility lane. And so I granted to you. The door is open. You are, of course, welcome to stay a bit longer if you like. And with that, a door appears in the playground. We can leave and hope that when we do, we find our father. Or we can skip all of that. We don't have to do any of it. And instead of working with Betty at all, we can follow old lady dithers' advice. And head straight to the abandoned house. We arrive in a dark, dimly lit room. And we see a variety of strange objects scattered around this living room. Inspecting the numb. Whoa, what? And the glass picture. The broken radio. The cinder block. And turning around the empty bottle. What does this mean? Nothing happened. Let's explore this place. Turning east, we go down a hallway. We find newspapers and filth covering the ground, unlike every other house. There's nothing in the bathroom. And in the kitchen, we see a chair tipped over. And someone tried to get behind this refrigerator. But we can't access anything here. Heading upstairs, we see the beds moved around in the bedroom. And a filthy tub in the bathroom. There's nothing here. Nothing but the strange assortment of musical objects in the living room. Heading back down. Let's see if we can figure this out. What could it mean? Examining the objects over and over again. It just doesn't make sense. But wait a minute. There's something familiar about these notes. Have we heard them somewhere before? All day long, Betty has been whistling a tune. And it's the same tune we've been hearing in this daggone hellish music that's been playing in the background of this insane simulation the entire episode. F-C-D-C-B-D-A. Which translates to... Radio. Pitcher. Nome. Pitcher. Cinder block. Nome. Nome. Bottle. A terminal appears on the southern side of the room. This is the Vault 112 auxiliary command terminal. Please consult a supervisor before proceeding. Inside, we find five options. Before accessing the controls, we can read some of Dr. Braun's entries. In the first one, two-can lagoon. I have finally come to a realization that the two-can lagoon simulation has run at its course. I'm tired of the beating sun and the ceaseless pounding of the lagoon's waves upon the shore. I no longer take pleasure in watching Simpson with her away from scurvy or hearing news-bomb screams as he's devoured by the mechot shark. I am quite simply bored. It is time to reset the simulation once again. I haven't been skiing in ages. That's right, he's been doing this for 200 years. How many different simulations has he run? Which one is this? The second? The third? The hundredth? In the next one, Dr. Braun entry, Slalom Shale. Yesterday, dithers slipped on the Shale's icy stairs, went airborne and managed to impale herself on the rot iron fence. It was spectacular and completely and utterly random. Is there anything more sublime than that bold crimson on fresh fallen snow? It was almost enough to make me reconsider a change of scenery. But not quite. 23 years is a long enough vacation in the Swiss Alps. I long for something more domestic. In the final one, Dr. Braun entry, Tranquility Lane. I have surprised myself. I find Tranquility Lane comforting. Although distinctly American, it somehow reminds me of Kronach, the town of my childhood. There's a beautiful irony with this particular simulation as well. The residents here are naturally at home, naturally safe. When I toy with them, when there's a bourbon illusion is suddenly broken, it's that much more satisfying. I do believe we shall all remain in Tranquility Lane for a very long time. A very long time, indeed. In the next one, Access Version Control. Welcome, Dr. Braun. We find two options, Display Current Version Control or Display Previous Version Notes. Under Current Version Control, we find Version 3.2.305. Exceptions granted for Pod Triple O1. Manual override for Pods disabled. Remote access allowed. User S. Braun has privileges. Updated neural implants to override memory access for individual users. Revised code for Vault Maintenance robots. Authentication from S. Braun required before further updates allowed. User Unknown Granted Access. User Unknown Altered by S. Braun. This must be a record of when James was placed in one of the pods. Next, we can read the previous version notes. 6.1112. Could that be June 11th, 2112? 2212? New program Tranquility Lane loaded. Authorization S. Braun. And the day before, 6.1012, all previous versions wiped. Authorization S. Braun. So we don't know how many versions he tried. Backing out, we find one option left. Access Chinese Invasion Program? Chinese Invasion. Failsafe Subroutine Access. Welcome, Dr. Braun. Before initiating, we can read the Failsafe Program documentation. Dr. Braun, here is the revised code for the Military Training Program. You've expressed interest in. I'm not sure exactly what you want with it, and I again stress that this program was never designed to be run with civilian equipment. Frankly, I don't expect any system you have access to can even run it. But if you can run this program with the Failsafe's off as requested, your real-world test subjects will die. If killed in the simulation. It goes without saying that officially, I denied your request. General Constantine Chase. So Strenna's last brawn got this subroutine from Constantine Chase, the very guy who had his hands in the Operation Anchorage Simulation. US Military Training Program 923B. Chinese Invasion. Purpose. Simulate a communist incursion on US soil. Documentation called. New Protocols enacted. Disabled safety protocols 1-6. Override target acquisition. Warning. Test subjects will experience real-world termination. Proceed with extreme caution. So wait, if we activate the Failsafe? We kill everyone in the vault. For real? Oh my god. Suddenly we have a really tricky ethical dilemma. Is it better to leave these people here? Leave them the playthings of Dr. Braun yes, but most of them, all of them in fact except one, aren't in any pain. They don't even know what's going on when they die they are resurrected. Or do we free them from their captivity because one of them asked us to? And free them by means of killing them? Backing out, we can read Dr. Braun entry Failsafe. There are days I consider finally pulling the plug, as it were, and putting a permanent end to both this simulation and my life. That is the reason I requested installation of General Chase's Chinese Invasion program after all. By disabling the safety protocols, I have ensured that each subject in Vault 112 will physically die if their in-simulation avatars are killed. Real-world death. End of simulation. The perfect Failsafe. At least it would have been, if not for my own misjudgment. I knew when the simulation first went online that the secondary safety, as those established for all Vault Tech and Military personnel, would prevent my own real-world demise in the event of a Failsafe execution. In the end, I would kill the subjects and save myself. I wouldn't want it any other way. Or so I thought. It's true the Failsafe would scare the living hell out of every resident in Tranquility Lane and lead to their brutal deaths. But then what about me? I have no ability to disable my own safety from within the simulation, and any other avatars I could create would be driven by the simulation's AI routines, not actual living, thinking, human subjects. Where's the fun in tormenting a machine? And so the release of the real-world subjects is more than they deserve. More than I could bear. They'd be dead, and I'd be left here in Tranquility Lane alone and tragically bored for all eternity. I can think of nothing more unacceptable. So wait a minute, the Failsafe only kills the residents of Vault 112, not Braun? And not only does it kill them, but it terrifies them all first before brutally killing them? These are our two options to allow them to be tortured by Braun for eternity or to terrify them and brutally kill them to end their misery. What a choice! For someone who wants revenge on Strenus Lauspran, there really is only one choice. The only option that terrifies him is to initiate the Failsafe to kill every resident of Vault 112. If that's what we want to do, we can choose the option to initiate the Chinese Invasion Failsafe. Program Running, Proceed with caution. And with that we gained karma? Well, I guess it wasn't that much of an ethical dilemma for Bethesda, heading outside. I'm here! Half a dozen Chinese troops appear and begin firing on the Vault 112 residents. They slowly walk all over Trancola de Lane until mathematically. They kill every person one by one. Ah! Everyone, except for little Timmy, I didn't see him anywhere. Remember this is a different save, long before he was turned into a gnome, so I have no idea what happened to Timmy. But they killed everyone else, except for dock the dog, our dad, ourselves, and Betty. What did you do? Do you realize what you've done? You've triggered the Failsafe! Run everything! The subjects will die and I'll be stuck here in this hell alone! You ruined everything! Everything! I'm calling the shots now. You? No! I! I am the creator of this world! You're so lost. So, all alone. It's all over. Now shut up and answer my questions. It is not over. It is not over until I say so. Do you understand me? I! I! I! I just want things to go back the way they were. You'll just reset everything anyway. Who cares? I can't reset it. Don't you see? The Failsafe disabled the security protocols. They're all dead. For good! All my friends. Gone. Now I'm stuck here by myself. I put these people out of their misery. You're getting exactly what you deserve. You've taken them all from me. You've left me with nothing. It's not fair. Nobody'll play with ever again. I came here from my father. Now where is he? He's been right here the whole time. And you were too dense to figure it out. The dog you see. Man's best friend. But now you've taken all my friends from me. So my father's okay? I can get him back? Yes, I'm sure he's fine. No doubt when you lose a simulation he'll be waiting for you. But there's no one waiting for me. Tell me about the Gak. The Garden of Eden Creation Kit. It was for terraforming. For restoring the world after a nuclear disaster. Unstable technology. And ultimately boring. Why remake the old reality even? Instead you could create any reality you choose. Tell me about this place. About Tranquility Lane. It is my greatest achievement. The best of the many simulations I've run since these 200 years. I played with the others. But they bored me. This version never grow old. It amused me over and over and over again. Tell me exactly who you are. Who you really are. My name is Stena Sloss Braun. I'm a Vault Tech Scientist. I created this simulation for Vault Tech. But for myself as well. It was my own design. My own perfection. A better reality than any other. Far greater than my work on the Gak. So I'm free to live. Isn't it obvious? You'll run the fair safe. Disrupted everything. I have no power over you. There's the door. Go. I'll be going then. Where along now? We see James our father. Doc the dog. Standing nearby. Looks like he survived. And the Chinese commando seem to take no notice of us. They call us Comrade. They must think we're a Chinese citizen. And with that we can head out the door to leave Tranquility Lane forever. And when we do. We finally find our father. But we have to save this reunion for another video another day. If after talking with father we go to inspect the pods. We see them sitting upright, staring forward. But when we read their terminals we find that their vital stats have crashed. Each and every person here has zero pulse. No blood pressure is not breathing. They all require immediate medical attention. In other words, they're all dead. And we kill them. What are your thoughts on Tranquility Lane on this really horrible ethical dilemma? Or do you disagree? Do you think that it's not much of an ethical dilemma at all? That the choice is easy. Let me know your thoughts in the comments section below. I publish many followed videos each and every week here on my channel. So if you don't want to miss my next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have any feel like you're still missing notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs who can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wide array of colors. They come on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.