In our last episode, we helped escort Escaped Synth each to 22 to the Tecunda Roga safehouse. We can then go about completing Railroad Radiant Sidequests for a while until one day when we arrive back at the Railroad headquarters. Desdemona takes us aside. We've gotten emergency. Glory spotted a Corsair near Dayton Safehouse. Another Corsair? Oh man, our number may already be up. Normally we go to ground at the first sign of a Corsair. We hide deep, we hide long, until we know we're safe. But we can't abandon your infiltration of the Institute. So we're staying. All that if you spot a single Corsair. It sounds extreme, but we've paid dearly for that bit of wisdom. Every time a Corsair is spotted death and destruction follows. Sounds like we're screwed. You've been talking to Pam haven't you. We have no choice, so we press on. Can I lend a hand? Yes. Go on. It gets worse. Tecunda Roga Safehouse has gone dark and I need you to check it out. Hopefully this is a milk run. But if you do find a Corsair there, kill it. If there's no survivors, then your cover remains intact. Is this really worth risking my cover? Glory needs to evacuate Dayton and you're the only other heavy we have. And if we don't use you now, soon there won't be any railroad left. I could be walking straight into a trap. That's a distinct possibility. Here's hoping that they're just late checking in. Good luck. I'll take care of it. Get to it then. I'll head out. Good luck. Glory. Pick your team. Hmm, it's just Miley too. Done. Grab anything you need from Tinker Tom. Anything? It's not open season yet. But take what you need. Oh, I will. Everyone? We may have to evac on a moment's notice. Stay alert. With that we begin the quest Operation Tecunda Roga. So a Corsair was spotted outside of Dayton and the Glory seems to already be aware of it. I tried it some lead with the Corsair outside Dayton. Watch your six out there. If TyCon falls, we'll be running out of places to hide since. She heads out to go make sure the Dayton safe house is okay, but we need to check on TyCon Roga, which is recently gone dark. Could a Corsair have found it? If so, we can only hope that high rise in H222 got out in time. Heading to TyCon Roga, we can take the elevator upstairs and upon stepping out we discover. On Truder Identify, this is a restricted area. Your arrival wasn't in the mission briefing. This irregularity will be reported to Justin A.O. They're already here. Now we could attack. You can't report anything if you're dead. Cut the power. Now we should never have trusted him outside the bridge. In which case the Corsair and every Cynthia immediately turns hostile. Or we could try to talk our way out of it. I didn't mean to stumble into your operation. Just a coincidence. Explanation deemed improbable. Leave this area immediately. We could try passing a yellow charisma check and if we fail. You know who I am, so tell me. What are you doing here? You are not authorized for that information. But if we succeed. Intelligence indicated this is a railroad base. Perimeter breached and all hostile is eliminated. Currently maintaining surveillance. Or we can pass a more difficult orange charisma check. The SRB said me to check on you. See if you need help. Your explanation is insufficient. If it is found to be untrue, expect severe consequences. Leave this area immediately. But if we succeed. Mission proceeding according to plan. Ambush set for railroad targets. Prepare to reclaim any synths they possess. Use the stairs to leave. The elevators been disabled by the second unit. No matter which option we choose, the only one that turns the immediately hostile is if we attack. But as we just learned, they disabled the elevator by a second Courser unit, which must be downstairs or outside. Because we're a member of the Institute, they let us explore the tower freely for a bit. However, as I started to descend the tower, even after passing either of the charisma checks, once I reached a level with the machine gun turret on it. It opened fire and then all of the synths did as well. This doesn't make sense within the context of this quest. Because if we pass a charisma check, we should be able to walk away unscared. However, it does make sense from a railroad perspective. Because it is a bit too much of a coincidence for us to appear here. Without knowing that the Institute had a mission here. If word of our arrival here got back to anyone at the Institute, they would know that we're still working with the railroad. However, by choosing the non-violent options, it gives us a brief moment to loot the Fat Man launcher and the Mini-Nuke on this upper level, which gives us an upper hand. And as we explore, we stumble upon the bodies of railroad agents, including the corpse of High Rise. I don't have a weak stomach, but damn. I went through each and every one of these bodies, but we only find High Rise and Nameless Railroad agents. We don't find H2. Could he have escaped? At the end of the day, our only path forward is to kill everything here. Let's see if they left anything useful for us. Suddenly, I regret eating that moll rat meatball. Inferior something shakes me. I'll be dead, then you're inevitable doom, Oscar. Back before I met you, I'd go hold days without massacres. When we reach the bottom of Tykonda Roga, we can use the terminal to unlock the door and step outside. But as we learn from X927, there's another coercer on the ground floor guarding the elevator. There's no talking our way out of this one and limited options to stealth away. They're trapped in this corridor, pinned by a nameless institute coercer, but with much persistence and a lot of healing, we finally eliminate it. The importance of bunker hill and hour asset there is not widely known. Please keep it that way. They got high rise too, Des. All hands lost? God damn it, that's not the news I wanted to hear. Now we're in a race. Can we free the synths before the institute wipes us out? Shouldn't we just hide instead? It's only a matter of time before the institute burns your cover. We only have one chance at this, so bearing our heads in the sand isn't an option. There must be some way to slow them down. People non-essential operations have already been shut down. Unless we abandon the synths we've pledged to protect, there's nothing more we can do. So your idea is to sacrifice everyone. That plan stinks. The plan is to save as many synths as possible. And this is what everyone signed on for. We've survived this far. We'll make it to the end. Here's hoping. With TyCon down we're shorthanded. If you can spare time from your primary mission, the others could probably use some help. She doesn't give us an update on Dayton. And we see Glory here in Railroad headquarters, so that must mean that Dayton is still okay. I ice the corsairs before they found the end. This time at least. HiRise was a good man. So many good men. That seems like no matter how hard we try, the Railroad just keeps failing and failing. Tess Demona is right. We need to get all of the synths out of the institute as quickly as possible, but for the Railroad loses anything else. And what happened to H2? Will we ever learn his fate? To find out, tune into my next episode. I publish new lore videos each and every week on this channel, so if you don't want to miss it, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already but you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxford. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a merch shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do when you want to support me in another way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comment sections of my videos, and they can use ox emojis in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. As YouTube continues to evolve their algorithm, your memberships and super-thanks are becoming increasingly important. So if you like what I do here, subscribe, become a member, and send me a super-thanks. Your contributions go directly to the production of this series. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with the next episode in the full story of Fallout 4.