From this wasteland they say you are going Do not hasten to bid me a doom Just remember the new Vegas Valley And the drifter that loved you so true In our last episode we finally discovered the name of the man who shot us in the head Benny. Benny is the leader of the chairman The family that runs a casino called the Tops in New Vegas He hired some great con mercenaries to intercept us and steal the platinum chip But we still don't know for what reason But we have some revenge that we need to spread on thick And so after leaving Boulder City we head north Through the Mahave wasteland to find New Vegas New Vegas is surrounded by a slum called Freeside Freeside is filled with crime, violence, prostitution and drug abuse As we enter from the southeast We immediately find a drug dealer named Dixon peddling his wares Looking for a fix man? I got what you need And then we find a drug People ask me how much it takes me to get drug? I don't know, I usually can't remember numbers I don't know where I am the next morning Freeside is not all bad though we do find a few interesting shops This one is called McEnralves We hear that they sell high quality weapons But the place has no law And as we walk the streets we get attacked by muggers Come on! Freeside is an interesting area And I've already done many videos dedicated to the points of interest along the way The Van Graff's Weapon Shop, the King's School of Impersonation And the Atomic Wrangler Hotel But our mission is to head to New Vegas to find Benny So by passing all of this we walk the streets towards the door of New Vegas As we get close to the Northgate A kindly old man named Old Ben gives us some sage advice You look new to Freeside so here's a little advice friend Don't go past the Southgate Greeter without talking to it first Why wouldn't I want to go past the Greeter? Those bots are programmed to vaporize anyone who enters the fence in area without authorization from the Greeter And right on cue, a Freeside thug makes a break for it He races past the Securitron guards But just as he reaches the gate Unautherized, you're treated detected It's permanent The guards make quick work of him If at any point we're interested in tempting fate We can make our own run for it Unautherized detected detected We don't even survive the first bullet Instead, to get into New Vegas we need to talk to the Securitron Gatekeeper Make sure a credit check, or present your passport before proceeding to the gate Trust passes will be shut A credit check? What's that for? Admissions to the Strip requires an official passport Or proof that you're carrying the required minimum balance These policies prevent less or goodable persons from entering And ensure a good time will be added by all who enter the Strip 2000 caps? I don't have that Maybe I can bluff my way in Sure, I'll submit to the credit check I'm sorry, but your balance does not meet the minimum balance Alright, well if I don't have the cash, what can I do to get in? If you are unable to make the minimum balance requirement An official passport is an acceptable alternative An official passport, but he doesn't tell us where we can get one Now if we have the caps, we can go ahead and hand him on over Thank you, Madam, you made your statement Or if we have a science skill of 80 or above, we can be fuddle this guy Oh, thank you, Madam, you made your statement But if neither of those are on option, we have to find a passport This pushes us back into free side Our best bet to find a passport is to talk with the local shop merchants Heading back to Mick and Ralph's, we can have a chat with Ralph Who man's the general goods counter right up front If you're looking for guns, talk to Mick Otherwise, I've got a nice selection of general supplies Hey, Ralph, do you offer any other services? I only offer services if the king gives the okay And press him and we can talk Now as we covered in my video on the king's school of impersonation There is a way to get a passport by doing quests for the king But that's not the ideal way to get into New Vegas As I mentioned in that video So instead of getting a passport from the king We can pass a 50-speed check here with Ralph to say The resourceful fellow such as yourself must have something on the side Alright, yeah, I've got a little side business going What I'm about to share with you does not leave this room, eh? Over the years, I've gradually perfected my craft to the point of perfection No one can distinguish between my work and the real thing But I'm referring to his passports If you've got the caps, I can whip up a strip passport Which will fool even the most well-trained eye Ah, now I see why you wanted to keep this low key Hey, if you're interested in having the caps, they go for 500 Any less and I don't worth the risk of getting caught What do you say, you game? We can put this off for now or we can pay his fee up front Or we can pass a 50-barter check to say No way your materials and expenses require that much How about half? I like your style, kid The best I can do is meet you halfway 375 caps and we can call it a deal 375? Okay, I'll take one Here you go With that we get the counterfeit passport It appears as some sort of electronic pass card in our inventory With the passport in hand, we can head back to the gate And tell the secure atron gatekeeper that we have a passport Thank you, Mell, you made the seat With that, we can finally open the main gate to New Vegas Before we have a chance to take in the science, we get approached by a familiar face Hi there partner You've come for a peace haven't you? Welcome to New Vegas Victor, what are you doing here? Consider me your personal welcome wagon Well, it seems like you pop up everywhere, Victor Oh, Schucks, partner I suppose I can't hurt legend on my little secret Old Victor wouldn't be much use stuck inside just one secure atron Now I can move from one to another with the snap of a finger Or you're not scared, ain't it? Just don't ask me how I'd do it Because I don't know This place looks amazing Where do I start? The place to get started is Locky 38 See that big old tower shaped like a roulette spanner? That's where you find Mr. House New Vegas's head, huh, chill? And he's itching to make your acquaintance Not now Victor, I'm busy Well sure you are, Rambler I know you're fixing to serve up some vengeance But I'm gonna have to point you to the Locky 38 first Point me to the tops, Victor I've got a squirt of settle Sorry, Rambler I know you're fixing to serve up some vengeance But I'm gonna have to point you to the Locky 38 first With that, we begin the quest The House always wins Part 1 Look, no thanks Victor I can handle myself just fine Bad idea, partner That man you're chasing He's a bad penny alright A route's night double man Think of Mr. House's antivenom Well why is the robot passing on his invitation anyway? Well now, it was Mr. House It made secure a chance like me Seems least I could do his pass on his message Don't know, he'll be waiting Okay, well you can tell Mr. House I might stop by, we'll see Don't you doubt a little doggy Mr. House isn't someone you want to go about snubbing Alright, alright I'll head there straight away Yeah, partner That's the spirit He'll be waiting for ya With that Victor rolls off And we can now watch people enjoy The decadence of the strip That's it, keep moving I really see the street Who's last five shots for a bad idea? How would I stay? Can I have words for your commanding officer after this? Why do they call it a monorail? It's a train A train I have a mind of three I want to sell them a chest wet at all Hey there friend, a bit of advice You look like you could use some protection I'm lucky for you, I got what you need My stock and trade All kinds of easy to hide weapons For slipping into and out of casinos They won't give you a second glance Jeez, this place is overwhelming So many people to talk to Easy to hide weapons Things guards can't spot when they're patting you down Or checking for eye and at your hip Why would I need to hide a weapon on me? Some pull You can't bring guns into the casino, that's why They'll strip you to your fists Sure, they say you get it all back when you leave Me? I don't like being without a little insurance When it's my caps on the table We can pass a sneak check of 50 to say I can get weapons past the guards no problem You might One fella I knew was able to slip a pistol past the guards You, I'm guessing you could get a machine gun by them Alright, let's see what you have Take a look at these beauties Mr. Holdout sells special types of weapons called Holdout Weapons And these weapons are so small and easy to miss That when casino guards pat us down and confiscate our weapons before we enter casinos They miss these, allowing us to sneak them inside There are a wide array of holdout weapons in the game even beyond the list That Mr. Holdout can sell us here There are even some unique items that are holdout weapons Since we have murder and revenge on our minds I think I'll go ahead and get a silenced 22 pistol for the task ahead And now for a tour of the strip The first casino we find is Gamora Outside Gamora we find strippers And the drunken NCR troopers walk past towards the monorail I swear the monorail was just ahead Soon to come back in Gamora Across the street from Gamora is the lucky 38 This is where Victor told us to go and meet Mr. House We need to stop and pee soon Next up is the tops The headquarters of the chairman, the very place we need to go to find Benny Down the street into the left we see the old Las Vegas Boulevard station This is now a monorail station that connects Camp McCarron with the strip Next to this on the same side of the street is the ultra-lux casino Supposedly one of the ridsiest casinos on the strip Even if it reportedly harbors a dark secret Across the street from the ultra-lux is Vault 21 An old pre-war vault now turned into a hotel Near to this is Michelangelo's workshop This is where Mr. House gets all of the billboards designed and created that he uses around New Vegas And across the street from Michelangelo's is the NCR Embassy Mr. House was wise to make a treaty with the NCR instead of turning them into enemies Now Mr. House still rolls the strip and he can reap the rewards of all of the NCR's money I'm really tempted to ignore this Mr. House guy and head on over to kill Benny But Victor did say that Mr. House might be able to make our revenge a little bit sweeter So post-poning our confrontation for now we can head on over to the Lucky 38 It towers above the strip Heading on over we see Victor manning the gate Well how did partner? Good to see you again Boss is waiting for you upstairs to get him over on We'll do I'll head on up with that the gate to the Lucky 38 opens Much like the gate to Diamond City and we can enter the casino floor The place is dead there's not a human soul to be found The tables are all laid out we find beer and ash trays The kitchen is stocked with food and drink Cigarettes stacked high on a counter and on the casino floor we find slot machines, roulette tables Every modern gambling convenience on the wall we find a framed newspaper clipping Winner, hottest tables in town, Lucky 38 Hotel, Las Vegas Looks like Mr. House is quite proud of his hotel Passing the change office we can head up some stairs to the VIP lounge Here we find a refrigerator and a hard locked terminal However when we try to access it the only option we have is to leave Inside the refrigerator we find a small selection of food and on a shelf at the very top are some gold and boxing gloves And a copy of boxing times These boxing gloves have the same damage as regular boxing gloves with one damage bringing the DPS up to 1.3 But they have a bonus of plus 50 fatigue Much better than the 35 fatigue that comes with the boxing gloves Compared to boxing tape it does a lot less damage the boxing tape does for damage But the boxing tape only deals 20 fatigue When an enemy gets too much fatigue he gets knocked out of the fight giving the player the chance to heal on up or execute some criticals On the wall nearby we find more evidence that Mr. House is proud of his hotel Grand opening, Lucky 38 Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada The other headlines are interesting too Gamora Hotel is still popular and citizens worried about electricity shortages Under the stairs on the ground floor there's a door to the cashier office Here we find a whole lot of empty gun cabinets and safes that are already open None of this is set to own we can loot to our hearts desire We can walk away with Bobby Penn's bottle caps a lot of pre-war money even some cams When down exploring we can head to the elevator in the middle of the casino floor and talk to Victor We have two partner At this point we have one option to head on up to the penthouse penthouse form When we arrive we find ourselves on a platform near the top of the Lucky 38 tower Victor stands behind us we see Securitron guards posted around and directly before us is a Securitron named Jane Well hello sugar Mr. House is waiting for you and is all of us Who are you Jane? I'm Jane, one of Mr. House's girls We keep them entertained We don't get any guests lately Perhaps we can entertain you as well I'm curious about the other casinos run by the tribal families Can you tell me more about the three families? They just knew money sugar They might pretend they're sophisticated but between you and me They're not far off from tribals Emeritus especially are just awful prudes The chairman and the white gloves society at least pretend to have some culture Tell me about the other casinos Well of course there used to be a lot more of them But these days there are three open to the public The tops, the ultra-lux and Gamora And the Lucky 38 of course But we're not open to the public You're a special case sugar That's all really interesting but you know what I'm here to talk with Mr. House Can you tell me more about the man? Why sugar? He's the maximum utmost If it were for Mr. House we wouldn't have this fabulous waterline of New Vegas would we? I didn't realize robots could have such strong feelings about people Sugar, I may be a robot on the outside But on the inside by neuro-computational matrix is an exact copy of Mr. House's favorite girl Sounds like you're pretty fond of them Well of course I am silly Mr. House is just the smartest, most wonderful man there ever was By, did you know he single-handedly reclaimed New Vegas from all those nasty tribes that used to live here? Well, he single-handedly sent in his Akira Trons to do it, but that counts in my book So you're a copy of a dead woman? What exactly do you do for Mr. House? Mr. House has a lot of needs sugar I take care of all of them and a lady doesn't kiss and tell I really didn't want to think about that Then maybe you shouldn't cry into a lady's particulars Hmm So what is this place? This is the lucky 38 resorting casino, or it used to be Mr. House has kept the place locked up tight for ages now Nobody comes in or out Now while traveling the wasteland I've heard rumor of a powerful reclusive collector who was searching the wasteland for snow globs You wouldn't have anything to know about this would you? Not many people know this, but Mr. House is one of the world's biggest collectors of antique snow globs If you happen to find any out in the wasteland, you can bring them to me and I'll add them to his collection Look at a reward, of course In fact, one of Mr. House's favorites went missing when we moved the collection If you have a look around the lucky 38, you might even find it All right, I'll keep my eyes open Goodbye, Jan Before we go down the stairs we can explore this upper loft level The secure-tron guards are neutral They have an intimidating presence, but they don't restrict our movement Through a big wrecked curtain we see a few novelty protectrons These are non-functional and appear to be models We even see one sporting Nukka Cola colors Here we find a variety of clothing items Another one of these open safes It looks like a pre-war office, completely untouched by time After exploring the loft area we can head down the stairs If we go to the northeast we see a big dining table Layed out with silverware and dishes for dinner To the east is the kitchen, pots and pans strewn about But no evidence that the ranges have been fired up in a very long time This is a dead end, so turning around we can head east Whereupon we find another named Securetron named Maryland But she has nothing to say at this point in the game Though based on our knowledge of Mr. House's relationship with Jane And remembering the gossip that Raoul shared with us when we acquired him as a companion We quickly understand exactly why she's named Maryland And what Mr. House likely uses her for Heading through the curtain we find ourselves in a large vaulted room And to the southeast we see a bank of monitors In the middle is one large monitor and on the monitor a face And the prewar face of Mr. House This meeting has been a long time coming hasn't it? You've come a long ways, literally, and I suspect Figuratively as well I have to ask, now that you've reached your destination What do you make of what you see? What the hell are you? A crude question, crudely asked I'll be happy to satisfy your ran bunch of curiosity At a more appropriate moment But now I'll repeat my question What do you make of what you've seen? I've never seen anything like this place Of course you haven't, Vegas always was one of a kind What you see down on the strip is just a fraction of the city's former glory yet More than an echo I preserved its spirit Or perhaps you were referring to the Lucky 38? The years haven't been kind to her, but still she manages to impress A city devoted to vice and sin, what's not to love? Oh come now, don't play the fool Vegas has fools enough, a superfluity of them They're what makes it so profitable They come to Vegas chasing penny antidreams of high living To feel like they're big shots, like they're winners You see that you and I are of a different stripe, don't you? We don't have to dream that we're important, we are I prefer the wasteland to be honest You aren't going to ramble on about the virtues of life out in the wastes, are you? It's a desert you do realize A radioactive desert where humans subsist in a barbaric state Difficult to glorify convincingly They are however aptly named, for that's what you'd be out there Wasted, here on the strip, your talents can be put to use So what's with the VIP treatment? I'm just a courier Oh, don't be coy, you've been playing a high stakes game ever since Victor dug you out of the ground Don't be afraid to admit it Alright house, can we get down to business? Oh by all means, yes, that's refreshing The business is this, one of my employees has stolen an item of extraordinary value from me And I want it recovered Simple enough What do you propose? My only concern is the recovery of the platinum chip What happens to many, I leave to your discretion When you bring the chip to me, I will pay you four times the delivery bonus stipulated in your contract How's that? Thousand caps, huh? I have a few questions before I decide What did you wish to know? Tell me about Benny Benny has led the chairman ever since I recruited his tribe seven years ago Until his recent misbehavior, I planned to make him my protégé Maybe if I begun grooming him sooner, none of this would have happened What use would you have for a protégé? To achieve my aims, I require a capable human agent to perform certain tasks I knew Benny was ambitious, even ruthless But I believed he would do the job so long as he was incentivized appropriately Obviously I miscalculated his drive for supremacy But in any case, you've come along A more than suitable replacement Why did Benny betray you? I have to think that he found out about the platinum chip and mistakenly convinced himself that he could use it to his own ends One of the problems of a tribal workforce, I'm afraid No intuitive understanding of how complex technologies can be Why didn't you intervene sooner when Benny ambushed me? Why didn't Victor intervene sooner, you mean? Good springs is a bit too far away for me to reliably control a secure-tron agent by remote I can send and receive packets of data at best Victor's combat algorithms determined the proper course of action Benny and his thoughts were more than a match for a lone secure-tron When he alerted me, I instructed him to approach the site after Benny and the others had departed So how do I get to Benny? It won't be easy Benny is always surrounded by at least four bodyguards Except when he's in his private suite on the 13th floor of the tops But the chairman are your employees, don't they take your orders? It's more complicated than that The chairman share what you might call a tribal affinity Look for a man named Swank, Benny's second in command He's always been a reliable, if unimaginative employee Do your best to convince him that you're working under my auspices If you have evidence of Benny's crimes, show it to him Why can't you be the one to tell Swank? My contract secure-trons are to enter the casinos only when invited by the three families or if other extraordinary circumstances arise The moment I send one into the tops, Benny will know I'm on to him Say I want to take a diplomatic approach If you were to approach Benny in public, you might be able to leverage his fear of exposure to make him agree to meet with you in private Any ideas on how I could catch him off guard? Sneaking into Benny's suite on the 13th floor would be very difficult but not impossible There might be guards, certainly there'd be a sturdy lock on his front door Why don't you just send your robots into the tops to arrest Benny? Frontal assaults on casinos? Not good for business In any case, Benny would see it coming and all he'd have to do is hold the chip up and point a pistol at it Our foremost advantage is that Benny doesn't know that I know he has the chip Let's not squander it Look, I have already suffered because of this thing and I need to know What is the Platinum Chip? It's a very special item, there's nothing else like it in the entire world It was lost a long time and difficult to find That's all you need to know about it for this stage of our enterprise fulfill your contract, deliver the chip and good things will come your way If the chip's so valuable, why use a single courier to transport it? You realize you were just one of many couriers, the rest of them dummies, so to speak And to that, many thousands of caps worth of mercenary protection to screen your avenue of approach Had I used an armed caravan to transport the chip, I might as well have been announcing to the world This is important, attack this I didn't want to attract the attention of groups like the Greek cons or the brotherhood of steel Alas, the real threat was closer to home Look house, you owe me an answer, I have a right to know That's simply not true I am the only person to hold any rights pertaining to the chip, I designed it and I paid for it, dearly To develop that chip, I spent a sum of US dollars, not the bottle caps that pass as currency these days, but a sum beyond counting For decades I paid salvagers to comb the ruins for it And when it was finally discovered, tens of thousands of caps spent to have it brought here We know how that turned out, complete your contract and it will be the last time I pay for the chip Save your questions for then You might keep an eye out for any computers that Benny's been using, maybe even a computer lab of some sort Who exactly are you Mr. House? I am Robert Edwin House, president CEO and sole proprietor of the new Vegas Strip I oversaw the city's renovation starting from 2274 onwards, the three families are my employees Before the Great War of 2077, I was the founder, president and CEO of Robco Industries, a vast computer and robotics corporation You appear to be a computer, not a man Don't let the video screens and computer terminals fool you, I'm flesh and blood, not silicone How have you stayed alive all this time? Let's just say it was very costly, but I was willing to make the sacrifices longevity entailed, financial and otherwise We can pass a medicine check of 35 to say the lifespan you're claiming is impossible, except for ghouls and super mutants I see you've made a study of the topic, my knowledge of the science of longevity would fill several textbooks Perhaps after a decade or two of economic reconstruction, I can commercialize these technologies and offer them to others such as yourself How did you establish new Vegas? We can discuss this in greater detail at another time, suffice it to say that when my security runs detected NCR scouts at Hoover Dam, I took action I recruited a tribal force to supplement my security trance and renovated the strip just in time to welcome the NCR as it marched into the region Instead of war, a tree was negotiated and the money started to pour in Can you share with me your thoughts on the factions of Iain for New Vegas? It's understandable that you'd be curious about this topic, but we'll hold off until the platinum chip has been recovered What else did you want to know? Alright, what were your terms again? As I said before, Benny's fate is yours to decide. Once you've delivered the chip, I will pay you the amount agreed upon Now we can either accept his thousand caps outright or we can pass a 50 barter check to say thousand caps? That's a good start, but well below market price Very well, five times the bonus, not one cap more The chip is worth far more than that My offer far exceeds the original terms of your contract which I will remind you already obligates you to deliver the chip It was thing that he's getting petulant at this stage You'd think bottle caps wouldn't matter to a guy like house after passing this check we have to make a choice To either agree to recover the chip or to not If we choose to recover the chip Well enough, return to me when you have the platinum chip in your possession Any final matters for us to discuss But if instead we say, I think I'll be leaving You are the first person to step foot inside the Lucky 38 in over 200 years It was not an invitation I made likely We have a serious matter to discuss concerning a contract you have yet to fulfill I'm still not interested, I'll see myself out You have an interest in this whether you like it or not You signed a contract to deliver the platinum chip to me Now I could stop you from leaving but what would that accomplish? If you want to go, go See what the strip I built, the strip I own has to offer Think about what I could offer you I expect you'll have a occasion to talk again You can always come back to Mr. House at any time to agree to finally deliver the chip to him But I'm just not ready yet I'm obsessed with revenge I don't want to think about politics and factions Not until my business with the chairman is done To the north we see a wall mounted terminal in a strange place Hovering over the wall we realize that this wall is a secret door We can't pick it Looks like we somehow have to gain access to this terminal to open it I wonder what could be on the other side When done exploring we can head back to the elevator to talk to Victor Congratulations, partner The boss has instructed me to compute to the high-roar suite You can bring your friends too Be like a little clubhouse for the gang you put together Just bear in mind, you're the only one gets to see the boss Any friends you got, they can wait and sweet Enjoy the digs, partner, they're plenty fancy And with that we gain access to our player home at the Lucky 38 I covered this player home and a bunch of user-made mods that make this player home much more convenient in another video which you can watch here After exploring our new player home we can go back to Victor and check out the cocktail lounge It looks like this is a revolving restaurant at least if it's anything like the Space Needle in Seattle This restaurant is on the other side of those big windows we see from the top of the tower when gazing at it from outside But it looks like this restaurant has not served customers in over 200 years We see a lot of cutlery dishes, glasses, but not a whole lot of food and really nothing of value Though we do find a copious amount of scotch and whiskey Also while exploring we find something gleaming beneath a cash register As we get close we discover that this is a snow globe for the test site You have found a limited edition Mahave landmark snow globe These rare pre-war artifacts are widely considered to be useless bobbles But rumor has it some collectors will pay dearly for them And this jogs our memory didn't Jane say something about Mr. House's collection We can go back to our player home at the Lucky 38 where we find a big snow globe display stand We can place the snow globe from our inventory here Or we can take it up to the penthouse and offer it to Jane I have a snow globe for Mr. House's collection You do? Why that's just wonderful! I'll take it and put it with the rest of the collection He pays 2,000 caps for the snow globe Which incidentally is more than he's willing to pay for the platinum chip This guy's priorities are a little off Well we've turned the Lucky 38 inside out, let's head back to the strip As soon as we exit the casino and NCR Trooper approaches us Hey you there, I have a message for you It's from Ambassador Crocker, very important, here you go He hands us a note from Ambassador Crocker Checking it out in our inventory I wish to speak with you immediately in regards to important matters I trust you have learned enough in your travels to know that the new California Republic is an honorable nation Engaged in a beneficent mission in the Mahave in general and New Vegas in particular It is in addition a wealthy nation that well rewards persons who dedicate themselves to its national interests Whether for reasons patriotic or material Allow me to reassure you that if you have committed any crimes or misdemeanors against the Republic It is in my power to pardon misconduct of this sort I stand ready to receive you at your earliest convenience in my offices At the New California Republic Embassy At the south side of the Vegas strip God bless the new California Republic Dennis Crocker and Ambassador extraordinaire and plentiful potentiary department of state New California Republic It appears that simply emerging unscathed from the Lucky 38 Casino has attracted attention First from the NCR and then by the locals of the strip who stand in awe as we walk around That one must be important around here Check that out, she just left the Lucky 38 Damn and she looks good to me too Well this letter has certainly given us something to think about but I just can't deal with politics right now I need to focus on Benny In our next episode we will at last enter the top casino and confront the leader of the chairman, Benny I publish a new Fallout video six days a week on a wide range of topics spending all of the games So if you want to make sure you don't miss my next episode be sure to subscribe and click that bell notification button Follow me on Twitter and Facebook if you want to keep up to date with all Oxhorn news And if you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way consider becoming one of my patrons on Patreon I take Sundays off which means I'm not going to have a video for you on Monday But never fear I will be back to work Monday and I'll have a brand new video for you on Tuesday So stay tuned until then Thank you all so much for watching and I'll see you Tuesday morning for a right and early with a brand new video Safe is kittens till you're ready to leave Oh and a friendly word of advice If you happen to stumble across any weapons during your stay here Well just don't wear them openly You dig? Now that we got that little business out of the way What can I do to make your tops experience the tops?