In our last episode, we either worked with Dr. Curling to release aerosolized FEV into the oil rigs ventilation system, worked with Tom Murray to cause a reactor meltdown, or blew up the computer's controlling the reactor, also leading to a meltdown. No matter what we chose to do, we high-tailed it out of there, taking the escape route all the way back up to the top floor and out the exit grid to the entrance. But upon arriving at the oil rig entrance, we find a squadron of enclave soldiers, talking to one, halt, what do you do in here? He says, well just to where you we can ask, and he says, Sergeant Granite of EC Company. EC Company, we can ask, and he says, Enclave Control Company, we're responsible for perimeter defense. Usually that is. Oh, I see. Well, what do you mean by, usually? Well, you know that freak Agent Horrigan just stormed past here. He's waiting for someone to try and make a break for it. Who's that we can ask? And he says, he is some genetically engineered freak as what he is, used to be the president's bodyguard, Secret Service Agent Frank Horrigan. Now he is more than half machine. A Secret Service Agent, and then we remember Dr. Curling told us that he did a small experiment with FEV on one of their own Secret Service agents, before deciding to use it as a poison. Could this Secret Service Agent be the same genetically engineered freak? This soldier was describing? Sounds like bad news we can say. And he says, oh, that he is. And worse, he's going to mop the floor with you. He's tough, fast, and just plain mean. I've seen what he likes to do to mutants, and it ain't pretty. Well, I'm not a mutant we can say. And, uh, what did he do? I don't like to talk about it. Says Sergeant Granite. It gives me nightmares. Let's just say that those walls aren't covered with rust. Exactly. Sounds like I'm going to have a hard time getting past him we can say. And he says, that's the understatement of the year. I pity you pal. Really do. And the Joseph one can say, pity me. You should feel bad for yourself. Your power plants control computer got fried. And now you're headed for a meltdown. You're all dead men. Unless this is a speech check. And if we fail it, Sergeant Granite says, oh, yeah, tell me another one. If the reactor is scrared, how come the lights are still on? Huh, smarty? Tell me another one. And we can try to reason with him and say, well, that's just the emergency lighting. Hey, I saw where the computer was. It's not broken. It's gone. I'm telling you, you're all going down for the count. Unless, but Sergeant Granite says, don't you tell a pretty story. You make me laugh. You know, I think you might even last over the one minute mark with Oregon. That would be a new record. Good luck, beauty. And the chosen one can say, gee, aren't you generous? I better warm up first on you and your squad. And with that, EC company turns hostile and we have to fight through them. But if we pass the speech check, he says, unless, unless what? And the chosen one can say, unless you help me get past Oregon to get to my ship. And he says, okay, okay. I can't talk for everyone. But my squad and I will do our best to help you put that freak Oregon away for good. I don't want to drown like no rat. Good thinking, we can say, let's go get them. We've got to get out of here with that EC company moves west into the room. Following close behind, we enter the room to see a very familiar figure. You've gotten a lot farther than you should have. But then you haven't met Frank Oregon either. Your rides over, beauty. Time to die. It's the giant mutant in power armor, the guy who killed the death clause in fault 13, the guy who killed Matt in San Francisco. And here he is blocking our path, Frank Oregon. Huh? We can say, Frank who? Me, Frank Oregon, that's who, United States Secret Service. You aren't going anywhere from here. I'm going past you whether you like it or not. Making our reacterminal down means that things are going to be pretty hot in here soon. Pity won't leave long enough to see it. You're not a hero. You're just a walking corpse. Hold on, let's talk this over. We just did. Time for talking's over. And with that, he attacks. Now it is convenient that Frank Oregon intercepts us here, right where we left all of our companions. However, after Frank attacks, all of the machine gun turrets that were previously neutral to us turn hostile as well. We now have to fight this monster from hell and half a dozen machine gun turrets. Needless to say, it's an extremely difficult fight. But there is an easier way past Frank Oregon. After convincing EC company to assist us, we can slowly sneak into the room. EC company walks forward, but they stop waiting for us to finish our job. We can creep forward and activate the terminal. This is the first terminal we read upon arrival and there was an entry here that piqued our interest at the time, but we didn't have the credentials. Logging into the president's user account and now that we have the presidential PASCII security override key that we got on Dick Richardson's body, we can choose the counter insurgency. And this time we can activate it. Presidential security PASCII recognized. Good day Mr. President, emergency counter insurgency protocol initiated. Target acquired. And the chosen one can say, I think I'll stand back and see what happens. With that, the machine gun turrets lining the perimeter of the room attack Frank Oregon. We recall that the counter insurgency program instructs base security to attack previously loyal soldiers who have rebelled. By activating the counter insurgency plan, we've fooled the security system into thinking that Frank Oregon is instigating an armed rebellion. And then, so as not to be mistaken, as part of this rebellion, EC company attacks Oregon. As does our companions. In this way, Frank Oregon is surrounded, being attacked from all sides. Our companions attacking from the north, EC company attacking from the east, yours truly attacking from the south and the machine gun turrets attacking from all around. Despite this, Frank Oregon is a tank. He soaks up bullets and spits them back out after a long, long, long fight and possibly the deaths of EC company. At last, Frank Oregon falls. Moving forward to inspect the corpse. You... You have one here. You and your mutie bastard friends are gonna join me in a big old mushroom clouds and off. I just triggered the self-destruct. The work will go on. You didn't do nothing here, except seal your own deathwards. Beauty... Honor... Courage. Superfire. And with that secret service agent Frank Oregon... ...dies... ...we can't loot his body. All we can do now is race out the door to join our tribespeople and the Vault 13 citizens on the PMV Valdez. And to make our escape back to San Francisco. And with that, Fallout 2 ends. As with Fallout 1... There are a lot of problems with the ending slides for Fallout 2. Some of them are missing the voice narration. Some of them are missing the visible slide. Some of them have been programmed incorrectly so that they don't even work. And so for this video I recreated them here as they were intended to be unlocked. After the enclave's destruction, the refugees of Aroyo and Vault 13 resettled building a new community with the aid of the Garden of Eden Creation Kit. Finding themselves hundreds of miles from their Vault. The members of Vault 13 chose to join the villagers in establishing a new community. And their technical expertise combined with the village's survival skills allowed the new settlement to grow and prosper. Two generations of the same bloodline were reunited. And their savior, the chosen one, became Elder, presiding over the village in the years to come. If our village elder survives the oil rig and escapes with us on the PMV Valdez... Aroyo's elder lived for many years after the destruction of the enclave. She was pleased that the ancient separation between Vault 13 and the Vault Dweller had been reconciled. And many with the time she told you that she wished the Vault Dweller were alive to have seen the reconciliation take place. The elder passed away in her sleep, certain that the safety of your new village had been secured and was now flourishing. Many of the older Aroyo residents believe that she now lives in the Vault of the Sky, telling the Vault Dweller's of your brave deeds. If we delivered the message from the town of Murak to the slags and then joined Murak in attacking the slags... Armed with flares and clubs, the people of Murak invaded the slags underground city. The slags were quickly defeated and the Murak residents slaughtered every man, woman and child they found. Rumor of this vicious attack spread far and wide and fear motivated Murak's neighbors to attack and destroy the town. If instead we delivered the message and refused to help the slags or killed all of the slags ourselves... The extermination of the slags only created new problems for Murak, unable to find the slags underground sistern to sustain the crops. Murak was hit hard by the resultant drought. Over the next several years the people of Murak either moved away or died of starvation. If we just didn't bother to deliver Murak's message to the slags but we also didn't kill them we get the following ending. However this ending has no voiced narration so instead I'll read it. The drought lasts for another seven long years even though the residents of Murak attempted to weather the drought their dreams along with their crops, withered to dust. But if we made peace between the town of Murak and the slags... Relations between the slags and the residents of Murak flourished. Between the two peoples, Murak prospered and became a major farming community, supplying all the outlying regions with food. If the chosen one killed both Metzger and Rebecca in the den... Without any viable economy, the den soon vanished into the waste land. If the chosen one did not kill Metzger but instead killed Big Jesus Mordino in Nureno... Metzger's business and the slave trade soon faded with the removal of the Mordino family. The den continued to attract criminals and Metzger's business practices delved further into drugs and prostitution. The den soon became a rallying point and a safe haven for raiders. If the chosen one did not kill Metzger and also did not kill Big Jesus Mordino... Metzger's slave trade in the den expanded greatly, giving him influence and power throughout most of the area. The breeding pens were started and eventually no one was safe from the threat of being enslaved. Travelers avoided the den, hearing of the evils committed within its walls. But if the chosen one decided to kill Metzger but he left Rebecca alive... With Metzger gone, slavery disappeared from the area. Becky's casino bar grew quickly and Rebecca Dyer's reputation as an honest casino and bar owner... Brought her the business needed to buy out her competition and expand. The den flourished and it soon gained a reputation for being a tough but honest community. If the chosen one turned Vault City hostile... The slaughter of Vault City has become the stuff of legend. One day it was a thriving community and the next... The body of its citizens lay strewn throughout the streets. It looked as if raiders had sat the city but no bodies of the attackers were ever found. Their vault was plundered of all its technology and refugees from Gecko soon moved into the broken walls of the city. But if the chosen one turned Vault City hostile and also fixed the Gecko power plant that ending also includes the following. In a few short months they had rebuilt the city and restored much of the systems that had been damaged by the raiders. If the chosen one never fixed the Gecko power plant or chose to blow it up... Over the next few years the background radiation from Gecko's power plant began to cause mutations in the Vault City population... forcing the citizens to relocate to NCR. NCR however, recalling past animosity... relegated the Vault City refugees to the status of second class citizens. If we fixed the power plant but never revealed to first citizen Lynette of Vault 8 that the raider attacks were really coming from the bishops in New Reno... In the years to come, Vault City suffered greatly from raider attacks. Eventually the situation grew so desperate the citizens were forced to request aid from NCR. Within a month a large detachment of the NCR's military was stationed in Vault City. The military presence quickly became an occupation force and Vault City became the first of NCR's border territories. If we fixed the power plant but we killed bishops raiders and we gave Gecko Lynette evidence of what the bishops family had done... In the years following the destruction of the enclave, Vault City continued to stagnate, choking on its own isolationism. Its Vault-A generator which was never intended to support such a large population prevented Vault City's necessary expansion. Eventually the city was absorbed by NCR which had spread steadily northwards since its founding. If we fixed the Gecko power plant, killed the raiders harass in Vault 8, exposed bishops plan to Joanne Lynette and optimized the Gecko power plant... While also giving to Council Member McCleur the economic data from the power plant... And as long as we leave Council Member Weston from NCR and first citizen Lynette from Vault 8 alive... The correspondence between NCR and Vault City continued and a few years after the destruction of the enclave, Roger Weston assumed the head of the NCR Council. He immediately set limits for NCR's expansion north and in a landmark settlement passed an amendment that formally recognized Vault City's independence. Shortly after this settlement, Weston suffered a heart attack and retired from politics. He moved north to Vault City for medical treatment and eventually married Joanne Lynette in the following year. If we kill all four mob families in NCR... The inhabitants of NCR were slaughtered and the city collapsed into ruin. No lights shine there now. The streets, home, owner to packs of wild dogs and vultures. The desert tribes avoid the giant graveyard, claiming the city is haunted by evil spirits. Some say the destruction of New Reno was a judgment from a higher power. If a meal chosen one impregnates, either Mr. Bishop's wife or daughter and then convinces Mrs. Bishop to move on from New Reno... In the years following the destruction of the enclave, a new family arose in New Reno following the example of a simple tribal that had once visited their city. They were fewer number but surprisingly resourceful. Driven by religious fervor, they took control of New Reno and put the other families to the spear. After their victory, they sent out many messengers across Northern California looking for their founder without success. Many felt that the founder had been taken by the fortune spirits and now dwelled in a golden casino paradise in the sky. If a meal chosen one impregnates either Mr. Bishop's wife or daughter but instead encourages Mrs. Bishop to stay here in New Reno... Not long after the destruction of the enclave, the Bishop family of New Reno was blessed with a child. This child seemed to have little in common with the bishops, preferring instead to spend his days exploring the wastes. When he turned 13, he seized control of the Bishop family and led them to victory over the remaining New Reno families. He died quietly in his sleep at the age of 73, never having known his real father. If the chosen one supports the Bishop family in New Reno... The Bishop family of New Reno rose to prominence over the next few years, forming a strong political alliance with the New California Republic and Vault City. Many mysterious deaths and closed door proceedings surrounded the formation of the alliance, but in the end, New Reno became part of the civilized world. The other families were soon absorbed and New Reno became a prime tourist location for the New Republic. In the decades after the alliance, several bishops rose to political power and were instrumental in the passage of several amendments protecting gambling rights and prostitution. If we support the Salvatore family... The Salvatore family of New Reno having profited from their ties to Navarro used their laser weaponry to burn the other families into submission. The resultant massacre was dubbed Ash Friday and is still celebrated in New Reno to this day. If we support the Mordino family and we never find a cure for Jett... The Mordino family grew greatly in power as Jett's influence spread across Northern California. Within a year, they had seized control of New Reno and expanded their empire, absorbing the den and other surrounding areas. There was little violence in the conquest as Jett had weakened all resistance to Mordino rule. If we support the Mordino family, but we do find a cure for Jett... With their Jett production halted with the discovery of a cure, the Mordino family quickly lost ground in New Reno and were absorbed by the other families. Most became enforcers or slaves and the name Mordino was soon forgotten. If we support the right family and we arm them with weapons from the Sierra Army Depot... Less than a month after the enclave's destruction, a mob war broke out in New Reno streets. The rights, armed with an arsenal of weaponry that dated back to the pre-war years, leveled the casinos of the other families with rocket launchers. The mob war was clocked as lasting a little over 43 minutes and when the smoke cleared, half of New Reno had been demolished. To this day, it is commonly taught that the right family were the founders of New Reno. If we support the right family, but we don't arm them with weapons from the Sierra Army Depot and we never discover who killed Richard Wright... Within months after the enclave's destruction, war broke out in New Reno streets. The rights, believing the Mordino's responsible for the death of one of their family, attacked the Desparado Casino. The running gun battle that ensued lasted a little more than a day and the rights were massacred to the last woman and child. Their mansion lies vacant now and there are few New Reno inhabitants who remembered who once lived there. If we leave the right family in control, but we don't arm them with weapons from the Sierra Army Depot and yet we do discover who murdered Richard Wright... Within a year of the enclave's destruction, the right family turned from criminal activity to legitimate pursuits. Several schools and churches were established in New Reno, along with a law enforcement body that crippled the influence of the families. Though New Reno lost much of its edge, the city obtained a certain solidity that appealed to newcomers. Many came to Reno, not to visit, but to live, and the population increased threefold. Today, the test scores of New Reno High School graduates are greater than many Californian schools before the war. If we convinced the right family that the wrong person was responsible for murdering their son Richard... Though a murderer had been found and punished, the true identity of the man who had killed Mr. Wright's son was never discovered. The murder was never spoken of again and became a closed chapter in the right family history. However, if we correctly told them that the Salvatorees were responsible for murdering their son Richard... Though the right family never completely recovered from Richard's death, the knowledge that their killer had been brought to justice eased their troubled sleep. If Myron survives to the end of the game... Myron died less than a year after the defeat of the enclave, stabbed by a jet addict while drinking in the den. His discovery of jet was quickly forgotten, and now there is no one who remembers his name. If the chosen one blew up the Gecko Power Plant... The Gecko Reactor Meltdown had terrible consequences for the region. The resultant radioactivity and heat emanating from the reactor killed every living creature within a 10-kilometer radius... ...and poisoned the area for years to come. False cities perceived threat from the peaceful ghouls of Gecko was at an end. If the chosen one never bothered to fix the Gecko Power Plant... Eventually, the citizens of Valtz city tired of having their ground water radiated by the ghouls leaking atomic reactor in Gecko. In a wave of xenophobic fear and hatred, the well-armed soldiers of Valtz city slaughtered the peaceful ghouls and shut down the reactor for good. Unable to harness any additional sources of power, Valtz city eventually stagnated and died, itself a victim of its own hatred. If we fixed the Gecko Power Plant but we never bothered to optimize it... Repairing Gecko's power plant prevented any further radioactivity from leaking into Valtz city's ground water. Though this ease tensions between the two communities... ...they still maintain an uneasy truce. If we both fixed and optimized the power plant... ...optimizing Gecko's reactor created a power surplus in Gecko. The Valtz city council... ...unable to expand because of their limited power supply... ...yielded to internal pressure and was forced to take over Gecko to control the reactor. The peaceful ghouls of Gecko became slaves... ...and spent the rest of their lives serving Valtz city. And if we fixed and optimized the power plant... ...and also delivered the economic data to McClure in Valtz 8... ...optimizing Gecko's power plant became the first step... ...inforging a spirit of cooperation between Gecko and Valtz city. Gecko's increased power production became instrumental in helping Valtz city's expansion. The harsh xenophobia of many of Valtz city's leaders faded into obscurity... ...while ghoul and human labored side by side to create a center of learning intolerance... ...where ones had stood only enmity and distrust. If Harold survives to the end of the game... You still hear a mention of Harold from time to time. Apparently the tree growing from his head has gotten larger... ...and if rumors are to be believed... ...fruit is growing from it. The seeds are said to be remarkably tough... ...and several of them have taken root... ...even in the most barren stretches of the wasteland. If we discover a cure for Jett... ...and we deliver it to Dr Johnson in Redding... After Dr Johnson helped treat the miners during the great Jett scare... ...the citizens of Valtz city voted Dr Johnson into the mayor's seat. Under the doctor's patient hand... ...Redding forged closer ties with Valtz city until some years later... ...Valtz city an exed Redding... ...granting Valtz city's citizenship to only 10% of Redding's population. If we sold the excavator chip to dangerous Dan McGrew... ...but we never brought a cure for Jett to Redding... Several years after the chosen one sold the excavator chip to dangerous Dan McGrew... ...Dan used the superior production of his Morningstar mine... ...to buy the Coco-Weef mine... ...and then to reopen the great Winomingo mine. Dan then used his industrial clout... ...to forge an alliance of convenience with the families of New Reno... ...training gold in return for protection. If we found the chip but never sold it to either... ...Dangerous Dan McGrew or Marge La Barge... ...and we never sent a cure for Jett to Redding... The gold producing town of Redding soon found itself in the uninviable position of a scrap of meat... ...being torn by three jealous vultures. Sooner than many would have expected... ...there was nothing left of the scrap that was once Redding. For Vultz city, New Reno and the New California Republic... ...had laid waste to what was once an area of plenty. Nothing now exists but the desiccated husk of what was once Redding. But if we sold the excavator chip to Marge La Barge... ...and never sent a cure for Jett to Redding... Several years after buying the excavator chip from the chosen one... ...Marge La Barge was able to purchase and control both the Morningstar mine... ...and the newly opened Coco-Weef mines. Marge was an easy choice for mayor and using her new political power... ...she made Redding join the growing New California Republic... ...in return for a seat in the NCR's Hall of Congress. If we invaded Broken Hills and killed all the mutants... The destruction of the mutants ensured the death of the town. Without their strength and ability to withstand the toxins within the mine... ...the valuable ore proved unattainable. Those who caused this destruction rejoiced at first... ...until they realized the foolishness of what they had done. They struggled to keep the community flourishing but to no avail. The winds and the waste scoured Broken Hills from the map. If we visited Broken Hills but never bothered to solve the mystery of the missing people there... ...shortly after your last departure... ...the powder-cage of racial tension in Broken Hills exploded. Racist humans fought against mutants, ghouls and humans who sided with the mutants. The few survivors of the battle destroyed the mine... ...insuring no one else could profit by it... ...and disappeared into the wastes. However, if we discovered what happened to the missing people there... ...and convinced Marge to imprison those responsible... ...with a destruction of the conspiracy to destroy the mutants... ...Broken Hills began to thrive. Then the uranium ran out. The city, having lost its sole reason for existing, slowly dispersed. The residents carried their riches with them, leaving the place a wind-swept desolate ghost town. A few holdouts remained attempting to eke out a pathetic existence. But eventually, they too disappeared. If Marcus survives to the end of the game... ...inspired by your example, Marcus eventually trawled across the Great Mountains to the east... ...searching for other refugees from the master's army. You never heard from him again. If we never forge a deal between the NCR and the squatters of Vault 15... ...and if Western survives until the end of the game... ...the failure of diplomacy at Vault 15 slowed the New California Republic's growth into the north. Embarrassed by the failure, President Tandy was replaced by Roger Weston. When the New Government finally returned to Vault 15... ...they found nothing but a ghost town. If we don't negotiate a deal between Vault 15 and the NCR... ...but we also kill Councilmember Weston... ...but leave Vice President Carlson alive... ...or a weakened by the failure to annex Vault 15. President Tandy was forced to retire... ...when her own Vice President Carlson accused her of complicity... ...and Councilman Weston's death. As President, Carlson wasted no time in securing his grip on power. Under his rule, expansion slowed... ...since he was more concerned about lining his own pockets... ...than furthering the cause of civilization. We also kill both Weston and Carlson. Shaken by the assassination of Vice President Carlson... ...right wing element sees control of Congress... ...and set the New California Republic on a path to military rule. Eventually, the survivors of the enclave found a new home... ...in the ranks of the NCR. But if we completed a deal between the squatters of Vault 15 and the NCR... ...your help with Vault 15 launched the New California Republic's push to civilize its neighbors. Though there were many more obstacles to overcome... ...the NCR now had a foothold into the northern wastes. If we don't complete a deal between the squatters of Vault 15 and the NCR... ...the squatters of Vault 15 continued their meaningless non-productive lives. No one noticed when the desert wastes finally claimed the squatters. But if we do complete the deal... ...with the support of the New California Republic... ...the Vault 15 squatters soon became self-sufficient and productive members of society. If, after having discovered the talking death clause at Vault 13... ...we managed to infiltrate Navarro and kill Dr. Shrieber... ...before the enclave could attack the death clause at Vault 13... ...and if we fixed the Vault computer of Vault 13... With your aid, the death clause of Vault 13 became a thriving community. When the Vault could no longer hold their numbers... ...a peaceful campaign of expansion was launched to claim the surrounding lands. But if we kill Druthar... ...or we never kill Shrieber before the enclave can attack Vault 13... By eliminating the death clause of Vault 13... ...you banished yet another species of the realms of extinction. Proving once again the genocide is a viable solution to any problem. If we turn the Shie hostile... The Shie demoralized and lediless after your rampage through their town... ...slowly drifted apart. They blended into other towns, hoping to find a place free from the depredations of killers. If we kill Dr. Wong, who as you remember was one of the scientists working on radiation-resistant plant life... ...but we managed to not turn the rest of the Shie hostile... The strain of plant the scientists were growing mutated... ...gaining a measure of sentience. It killed the laboratory technicians and took over the laboratory in which it was first conceived. It took a massive concentration of resources to crush the being. And this left the Shie poverty-stricken. They disappeared into the wastes. However, if we don't turn the Shie hostile and Dr. Wong survives to the end of the game... The Shie flourished, creating a botanical scourge on the radiation surrounding their beloved town. Though this vine could not grow in other soils... ...the Shie took care to nourish it in their lands. They continued to grow in strength and prominence, forming the basis of a new empire. If we never managed to get fuel for the Havologists... The scientists grew tired of waiting for the starfather to come for them... ...or provide the fuel they needed. Using a cheap derivative fuel... ...they launched an abortive effort to reach the stars themselves. Their shuttle exploded, moments after takeoff. If we got fuel for the Havologists... ...and we repaired their spacecraft... The scientists ensured a safe and speedy launch of the Quetzal. Unfortunately, they didn't account for having recycled air aboard their ship... ...and they perished in orbit. However, if we get fuel for the Havologists... ...but we never repair their spacecraft... The scientists unable to figure out how to create an airtight seal on their ship... ...and had launched it anyway... ...believing that the starfather would protect them once they left Earth's atmosphere. They perished in orbit. As for the tanker vagrants... ...well, as vagrants do... ...they drifted on. The destruction of the enclave erased all trace of President Richardson from history. Now the title of President is used simply as a boogieman to frighten children. The war is over. We give me... We arrive back at the San Francisco Wharf. Dawn has broken. It's a brand new day. We rescued our tribe, and we've ensured that the enclave can't kidnap anyone else ever again. The wasteland doesn't change a whole lot after defeating the enclave. Strangely enough, despite the ending we get, if we return to Arroyo... ...we still find it destroyed. And we never again find our tribe's people. But there are a few changes. If we head to New Reno, we find that word of our exploits has quickly spread throughout this city of vice. If Cody is still alive, we find him right where we left him outside the cat's paw. Cody is stare-brakes as we approach. He blinks as we come up to him, and he gives us a slight smile. Hey Cody, we can say, I ended up saving the world. Man, it was a pain. Who would have thought the president could be such a bastard? So how are things with you? And Cody keeps smiling at us. Well, we can say, just thought I'd stop by and say hello Cody. You take care of New Reno, alright? Cody blinks, and then mumbles something. What Cody? What did you say? Cody blinks, then mumbles again. We barely catch it, but it sounded like, thank you. Hey, no problem Cody. Saving the world seems to be in the blood. Take care now you hear. Heading into the cat's paw, we find Miss Kitty very appreciative. As we speak, she looks up startled. You, she says, you came back. I thought you might be dead. And she looks relieved. I was so worried, risking your life, taking on the enclave. That's the bravest thing I've ever heard. Aw, Shucks Miss Kitty, we can say, it ain't nothing. Nobody else wouldn't have done in my place. And she says, you are so humble. I love that about you. She makes a sweeping gesture at the cat's paw. You are always welcome here, free of charge. And now that we've defeated the enclave, we can say, so how about, you know, you and me like, you know. And she says, all right then, oxhorn. Let me just get my coat. No rush we can say, take your time. The screen fades to black. And when we return, she says, and that's it. We can repeat with Miss Kitty as many times as we like. The prostitutes and towns people of New Reno recognize us and have a lot to say. Your score is 192 out of 208. You really should have used the mutated toe on Horegan. This fourth wall breaking little tidbit is a bit of a misdirection actually. If we use the mutated toe on Horegan, nothing happens. It just acts like a mutated toe. You should replay the game as a different kind of character. Tom French scripted me. He has soft, gentle hands. Yo man, only thing better than blowing an oil rig is having somebody blow in your rig. Know what I'm saying? Oh god. Man destroys the enclave thinks he owns the world. KEE-RAP! I hear the Corsican brothers are looking for you. They want to do a film based on your adventure. Oh. We'll have to check in with them. Way to go. I was too high to see what you did. But I'm sure it was cool. Uh. What kind of camp testing was the enclave doing? Was there free jet? And the jet dealers in New Reno give us a huge discount. Let me know how I can help you, hero. Tell me your needs and I'll give you the best rate in town. Then we can head to the Golden Globes. Talking with the guy outside. Man, I heard you destroyed the enclave. You've been now. You want to get laid? Head inside. We can talk with one of the Corsican brothers. Oxhorn. I heard about your exploits. How you blew the rig of every member in the enclave. That took a stomach of iron. And we can say, uh. I didn't blow every member of the enclave. You see, what happened was, don't be modest, he says. I know it must have sucked. Most people wouldn't have had the stomach for it. But you swallowed your pride and did what had to be done. That star power. Uh, look, I didn't blow every member of the enclave. See, know what I'm thinking, Oxhorn, he continues. I'm thinking about a feature film based on your exploits. We'd call it Pull Out. Post-Nuclear Bugaloo. Are we together on this? A? And we can say, sure, what the hell? I solved this game. Let's do it. The screen fades to black. And when we next talked to him, he says, You're a hero, Oxhorn, a genuine hero. I'm not going to forget all the crap you had to swallow for us. And once all the box office receipts come in, the whole world will know too. Great, we can say thanks. Moving to new Reno arms, we can talk with Renesco. Welcome back, hero, he says. Damn nice work you made of the enclave. Saved all our hides he did, and I thank you for it. You see something you like, you let me know. And we'll work out a special discount, alright? Now we've got a discount at new Reno arms. Heading over to Father Tully's church, if he's not passed out, he says, How are you? Do I know you? You're the one who beat the enclave like a god or dog. You're a hero. And we can say, I tangled with the enclave, yes. They started it, I finished it, but don't get me wrong, Father. I'm just a man, trying to make his way in this unforgiving world. I'm no hero. And he says, You're a hero. I got something for you. I didn't know what it was at first, but I figure you might be new in it. Sure we can say, I'll take whatever you're given, Father. Uh, well within the realms of decency. And Tully goes over to one of his pews, rips off a board from the seat, and pulls out a grimy, softcover book. Here you go. It's a little dirty, but he hands it to us. Thanks, Father, I think. You're a hero. You deserve it. Not many gamers today finish games, but you win the distance. I'm proud of you. I'm a new Reno's proud of you. Well, thanks, Father. You take care of yourself here. Inspecting our inventory? We find a Fallout 2 hint book. Well, this would have been good to have at the beginning of the daggone game. If we use it like a skill book, we gain 10,000 experience. The book contains tons of inside information on Fallout 2, more than enough to modify ourself for the better. And we can repeat this as many times as we want. 10,000 experience each time. It's a fount of infinite experience. Nice. Well, that'll come in handy. The right children playing outside the right mansion have begun to play a new game. Look out. Here comes the enclave. Had my hardened power armor on. That bullet bounced right off. Eat this, Mr. President. The enclave can kiss my seven-year-old ass. What jerks? Were you scared when you met the president? Did he have big fangs and claws? Look at me. I'm the descendant of the Vaultweller. Praise the Vault. Eat this, you enclave butt faces. Try and kill everybody with a virus, huh? Take this, Mr. President. If we head back to Vault 8, the gate guard says, you should catalog your travels in the Vault City computer. The Vault City guards call us a hero. Welcome to Vault City hero. And Citizen Sergeant Stark says, good job down south. Saw the fireworks all the way up here. Moving to the central council, is it true that the US was still fighting the war? I've heard you've traveled as far south as San Francisco. Is that true? Council member McClure says, I've heard of your act of heroism. We are all in your debt, chosen one. Then, talking with First Citizen Lynette, the word of your brave deed is traveled quickly. Is it true? Was the government still waging the war? Yes, they were going to use a virus to exterminate all life. They planned to start over at the cost of all that you've built here. How careless. How cruel. Were they not aware of the community we had built here? Perhaps an important lesson can be learned here, Lynette. Icelated from the world, the government was prepared to destroy you without even recognizing the value of your community. Perhaps Vault City should take another look at the outside world, and its place in it. That may be a valid point. Next time we should make a stronger effort to find these remnants of the government and ally ourselves with them. I hear they have great power, armor. But, oh, forget it. Good luck, First Citizen. Please call me Lynette. Travel carefully, my friend. We shall never forget you. You shall always have a home here within the walls of Vault City. Thanks Lynette. Looks like no lessons were learned there. Then, heading inside Vault 8, we can do as the gate guard suggested and take the elevator all the way down to floor number 3. Then, moving to the central computer, we can access it. Remember when we were last here, we uncovered a small slot in the computer that we could insert our PipBoy into. If we try to do so again, after having defeated the enclave, a small window opens on the terminal screen with a smiling PipBoy next to it. As we watch, the PipBoy looks right at us. Winks, then gives us a thumbs up. A red light is flashing beside the computer slot. We can give the PipBoy a thumbs up. Followed to development information as being entered into PipBoy database. Copy a file, Vault City Development Credits, download complete. Thanky, says the Chosen One. The PipBoy on the screen waves goodbye and then the screen turns black. The terminal has shut down. Inspecting our PipBoy we find a new entry, Vault City Designer Notes. Vault City went through many incarnations. It was designed by Leonard Boyarsky, Jason Anderson, Fergus Eukkart, and Chris Avalon. Scott Everts built the maps, and the brave men who scripted this architectural Frankenstein, were Rob Hurtinstein III and Dan Spritzley. And finally, Eric Pribish nearly gave his life testing the monstrosity that is Vault City. Chris would like to thank the following people who helped during the production of Fallout 2. Rob, Scottie, and Dan of course, Eileen Sue, Sarah Smart, Emily Yance, Ty Dang, who I never think for anything, Chris Wright, and Tim Winkle. Scottie would like to thank the following people, Don and Eileen Everts and Avis André, and thanks to Bill Bridges for all the cool, fading sun's books. Dan would like to thank the following people. Split ends for the great tunes, James Cameron for True Lies, Joe Viscousill for his kick ass explosions, Chongs at Triangle Square for Keeping Me Fed. Carlos Kotkin for finally taking the plunge, you'll be seeing the premiere of his first film any day now. John Land for the entertainingly unlikely Blaine McCracken novels, Red Warf for laughs, and finally, as always, Mom and Dad for Be In Cool. Rob Hurtinstein would like to thank the following people. Becky Warner still trying to keep me out of trouble, Billy Ryder for keeping me sane throughout this project, Little Ryder, who was supposed to arrive at the same time this game does, and Nicole Roman for being there. Eric Pribish would like to thank the following people. Tommy Hood Jr., Joe Isip, and Julio Matta for not disowning me when I had to ditch out on D&D to my old friend's Brad and Dave Carnas for keeping in touch all these years. Lastly, but most important, I would like to thank my loving girlfriend Ronda Loffer for understanding all of the long nights and weekends when work took me away, and for always being there for me when I came home. As a reward for defeating the enclave, Chris, Scotty, Rob, Dan, and Eric would like to take this opportunity to tell you to go to the computer terminal in the upper left-hand corner of this level and use it. Congratulations on saving the world, and thanks again for playing Fallout 2. What? A terminal on this level? Okay, let's see. Upper left-hand corner. Well, there's one room over here in the Western Wing, and in this room we only find one terminal. As we approach, we realize that this is the computer the Pip Boy said to use. Activating it? Whoa! With the help of the information on our Pip Boy, we access the computer. We have learned tons of information about Fallout 2, and we gain 20,000 experience! Holy crap! And just like with the book that we got from Father Tully, we can repeat this indefinitely, and every time we do, we gain another 20,000 experience. Well, it looks like at this point in the game, we can turn ourselves into a veritable God. And that is the full story of Fallout 2. Well, almost. There are still a couple of loose ends that we need to tie up, but we'll have to tackle those in another episode. I publish new Fallout videos each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss it, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you already have, but you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually, with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop, OnClave. Post your support for the OnClave and everything they stand for? With this brand new design, this design comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find it on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link in my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do when you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon, or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.