In our last episode, we met a cast of colorful characters, with names like Dangerous Dan Magroup, Marge La Barge, and Athabesca Dick. And we purged some one Amigos from a mine. It all made perfect sense at the time, but it didn't get us any closer to finding Vault 13. And so, heading south, we can head towards Vault 15, which is our best shot at getting the directions we need, along the way we see lights off in the distance. But here, in the middle of the desert, as we approach, we see that it's a town. But we've never seen a town of this size before. At last, we stumble upon New Reno. We've heard of New Reno. New Reno was a central figure in the power struggle at Redding, and we even already have a quest here. First, we need to find a guy named Ren Sekko to get a part to fix the air purifiers inside the Uranium mine at Broken Hills. And we need to deliver a briefcase to a one Mr. Bishop. This is the briefcase that Thomas Moore at Vault City asked us to deliver for him. Since it's on the way, we'll make a pit stop and try to take care of these tasks. Upon arrival, we park our car on the parking lot. Yeah, it's a bad park job, but it's not like anyone else is going to park here. These wrecks have been here for over 100 years. We're overwhelmed by the sheer number of buildings, neon signs, and graffiti. Let's see, we can get our bearings. We'll start by talking to this guy on the street corner with the orange shirt. Hey, hey, hey, welcome back. What does it you need from Jules, my friend? He says that even if this is my first time here, hey, Jules, I've got some questions. Sure thing, sure thing. He says, I got the treasure. So what's your pleasure? We can ask him to tell us a bit about New Reno. He says, can Jules tell you about New Reno? Hell, yes. First thing you should know, Reno's ruled by four families. The Mardinos, the Salvatore's, the Bishops, and the Rites. Each of them got a slice of the Reno pie. Tell me about the families we can say, and he says, well now another thing you got to know about New Reno is nothing's free. If it is, examine the merchandise. Well, looks like if we're going to get anything from this town, we'll be partying with our coin. We'll pay this guy a hundred bucks to get him to talk. Jules pockets the chip so quickly, we swear they vanished. So he says, which of the fine families interests you today? We'll start by having him tell us about the Mardino family. He holds up two fingers. The Mardinos are a two-headed beast friend, and each head's named Jesus Mardino. There's the father, Big Jesus Mardino, and the son, Little Jesus, and both are the meanest sons of guns you've ever met. They used to be slaves here, but they turned the tables years ago and carved out their own little empire. How big is their empire we can ask? And he says, they own the Desperado Casino just down the street. Can't miss it. They also got the biggest supply of jet in all of New Reno. So if you've got the urge to fly, how come the Mardinos have the biggest supply of jet we can ask? And he says, they're on top of the pile friend. Ain't no more reason than that. They've got the factory, the maker, and the distribution. They're like a whole dog on airline that got so much jet. What factory we can ask? And he says, got factories all over New Reno. Cranking up the stuff day and night. That's why you can buy all the jets you need most anywhere. Bars, casinos, on the street, and of course from me. Well, what about this maker we can ask? And he says, yeah, and then he leans in. See, the Mardinos got themselves a little goldmine by the name of Myron. Hit the jackpot with him. See, he made jet. How extensive is their distribution at work we can ask? And he says, they pump it all over New Reno for starters, up north to the den, and also, uh, but then he catches himself. Then shrugs and continues. Well, it's also making its way to Reading nowadays too, he says, which don't hurt the Mardinos person on. We just came from Reading. We're familiar just what effect jet has on the populace there. When we ask him to tell us about the other families, he asks for another 100 bucks. Well, this is going to be a pretty expensive conversation. But given in, we can ask him to tell us about the Salvatore family. A quiet bunch, he says. They're led by Louis Salvatore, an original gangster getting on in years. They're territories on the west side. They're cribs this bar called Salvatore's on Second Street. Don't be making trouble there. Why not we can ask? And he says, some free advice. You see a Salvatore, you keep your head down and your mouth shut, or they'll cut you in two. They've got the best firepower this side of C-A. So nobody with any kind of sense screws with them. Understand what kind of firepower do the Salvatore's have? We can ask. And he says pistols. Except they shoot light. Now, Reno's the city of lights, but the light those pistols shine can cut a man in two. Shhh. Jewels make slicing motions. Makes a clean burn between the two halves it does. They shoot light, we can say. Do they call the pistols laser pistols by chance? And he says, well, I don't really know. I ain't sure what you're talking about. But take my word for it. Don't go asking the Salvatore's about those pistols. They have this twitchy habit of killing people who are curious. Did they always have these pistols we can ask? And he says, they didn't always have them. Else they'd be in charge of Reno. All of Reno. As it stands, they're just building up quietly. Those pistols showed up. Maybe a few months back, around the time of the massacre. Massacre, we can ask. Oh yeah, he can say. Two Salvatore boys with those pistols killed a bunch of bishops men. Then shot down some of more Dino's boys who have been trying to muscle in on the west side. Since then, the other family steered clear of the Salvatore's. Any idea where they're getting these pistols from we can ask? And he says, no idea, friend. I ain't asking. And you shouldn't either. Take my advice. You're looking for weapons. There's other safer places you can try. Like where we can ask? You want weapons he says, you go see my men Eldridge on West End. He got stuff that'll kill people you weren't even met yet. Tell him, I sent you. We got to pay another 100 bucks to ask him about another family. But when done, we can ask about the bishops. Ha! John Bishop? Not much to say, he says. Bishops is smart one, and he's looking to get it all. Where's his territory we can ask? And he says he hangs out at the short club up on second street. He's surrounded by guards. So don't go pay in a visit unless you got real business with him. Then he smiles evenly and keep your business away from his wife and his daughter. Um, business we can ask? And he says, you know what I mean, brother? Just stay away from them too, less the thought of being on bishops list is something you like. Finally, we can pay in to tell us about the right family. The rights, he says. Ha! The rights are the only family who are family. The other families see they got mugs and tumbleweeds for muscle, but the right family is the right family. Understand? They're a family. How many are there we can ask? And he says almost 20 or more true blooded rights. Me and his spit in each of them uglier than the next. What do the rights control in Ureno we can ask? And he says they ain't got no casino. They mostly deal an alcohol and sell it to the other families. So if you're looking for Hooch, they hang out in the east side of town in a big mansion. Well, what about the law in this town we can ask? And he says ain't no law, ain't no police, ain't no sheriff, ain't no government body. Just the families. Well then who keeps order in Ureno then we can ask? And he says the families keep things running smooth. They don't like trouble in Ureno because it hurts the tourist trade. And that means less money for them. Don't make trouble and cover your bets. You'll stay off Golgotha. Golgotha, we can ask. And he says yeah, this graveyard outside of town. It's where they put deaders and people who've crossed the families. They just string them up on posts and let them die slowly in the sun. Not my choice, the dying stinks like hell out there. Golgotha of course was the name of the hill that the Romans used to crucify Jesus Christ. Well where can I get some kems we can ask? And he says brother, you need look no further than humble jewels himself. I got it all. And if I ain't got it, you don't want it. Shall we get down to business? Well first what kind of kems can I get a new reno we can ask? All kinds of stuff he says. I got stuff Mickey a horny. Mickey a woman horny. Mickey a hard. Mickey happy. Mickey a strong. Mickey a smart. And of course I got the kem. The stuff that'll let you fly. Jet. Where does jet come from? Has it always been around we can ask? And he says well, jet comes from here. Reno I mean. It ain't been around long but it's in demand. Know what I'm saying? Then he winks. Number one reason we get tourists like yourself. But why did jet come from here? We can ask. And he says ah now see family more Dino struck the jackpot one day when they found this little brainiac called Myron. Seems he is a natural when it comes to the making of kems. He made jet. Myron huh we can say where can I find him? And then Jules leans in. Now I don't want to go on about the less pleasant new Reno sites but there's this building the Stables North of town heavily guarded by the More Dino family. That's where Myron is. The Stables outside of town you say we can say. And he says yeah the More Dinos keep old golden boy there give him chips or anything he wants as long as he makes kems. Jet was his finest. It's seen anything so habit forming in a long time. Turned Reno around it did. Think I could meet this Myron we can ask? And he says whoa now brother here's some free advice. Don't you go be looking to meet Myron because the More Dinos catch wind of that they'll gut you and let you die on Golgotha. Isn't there any way I could see him we can persistently ask and he says well if you're a fine looking woman maybe but otherwise you'd need the More Dinos permission first. Both ain't very likely. We can take him up on his offer to trade us kems but we see his inventory is disappointing. He has no money to barter with a couple of steampacts and three doses of jet. That's some big talk there Jules. I'm looking for supplies we can ask and he says he needs some supplies. Well you can go see Renseco up on the west end but here's the catch. Don't buy no kems from him because they ain't safe. He's got supplies all right but if you want kems talk to me. Perfect Renseco he's the guy we're looking for to get that part for broken hills. I'm sure he's harmless. I bet Jules here is just trying to warn us off his competition. Then we can say I want to get laid and he says I hear you brother. Most tourists see they stride down Virgin Street and get suckered by some two chip ore. You look like you got class so head on over to the cat's paw across the street there tell him Jules sent you. We'll have to keep that in mind. Hey Jules I'm looking for a place called Vault 13. You mean Vault City don't you he says that's to the northeast. Can't miss it. All the caravan trails lead right to it. Looks like he doesn't know what we're talking about and finally we can say I'm looking for a garden of Eden creation kit and he says garden of wall. That's some kind of kem. What does this garden thing do? Get you high? Looks like that's about as far as Jules can help us. Well this cat's paw place is right across the street might as well start there. Standing on the sidewalk just outside the cat's paw we find a man employed to attract attention to the establishment. Attention booty shoppers take advantage of this booty sale he says by one piece of booty at the regular price and you get another piece of booty of equal or lesser value for only a chip try and beat booty for a chip if you can find cheaper booty anywhere pump it booty booty booty booty. Come on in booty lovers here at the cat's paw we are slash and prices in half give us an offer on our prime selections of booty it's a booty blowout we got white booty black booty southern booty northern booty we got hot booty cold booty we got fresh booty we got smelly booty we got tribal booty we got mutant booty red scorpion booty robot booty we even got Brahman booty ghoul booty death claw come on you want booty come on in booty lovers if we don't got it you don't want it come on in booty lovers okay I think a place that has death claw booty might not be a place I want to go but peeking inside we say that he's lying thank god no death claw we find a woman in a tight short black dress standing behind a counter the woman before you is stunningly beautiful as you address her she looks up from her work and smiles a new face I'm Miss Kitty welcome to the cat's paw what's your pleasure today sir um actually I'd like to ask you some questions sure she says what questions do you have but the only kinds of questions she can help us with are related to sex we can say I'd like to hook up one of my friends here it's their um birthday of course she says then she scans our companions which one we'll start with Vic trader Vic this your friend here she looks our companion up and down and nods I think we can accommodate you 192 chips 192 bucks oh that's pricing but if we agree the screen goes dark Vic appears in one of the hookers rooms and every hooker in the place talks at the same time is it in yet a couple of them say yes yes you have monster balls says another oh god oh god oh god oh god oh god oh god oh god oh god oh god god says another no I'm not going to wear the Mickey Mouse ears says yet another and the chosen one of plots clap clap clap he says and Suleik whistles but sadly Vic doesn't seem to have anything to say about his recent predicament so waiting for Miss Kitty to get back she says damn macro soft spreadsheets before sitting down we can do the same thing for each of our companions next we'll try Cassidy here I think it's been a while we can say and Cassidy is the same price with Vic engaged in one room Cassidy appears in the one next to it and every hooker in the place begins to spontaneously chat at once you are so rugged you're like hardened power armor says one hooker to Vic yes yes you are the vault dweller yes you found the water chip and beat the master you're a hero says Cassidy's girl need a moist towelette says one give it to me for me skull uh sorry what was your name again says another and then they begin to repeat themselves but the chosen one says way to go as he cheers on Cassidy and Vic whistles when Miss Kitty returns we can try the same thing with good old Suleik I'd like to hire a companion for old bone nose here if you catch my drift he says the chosen one it again costs 192 caps and he disappears into a completely different room the hookers all spontaneously shout the same things we've already read and sadly the chosen one doesn't have any side commentary for Suleik of course Suleik if we have Lenny the ghoul in our party we find an option to say could you take care of Lenny I don't think he's ever even kissed a girl but for Lenny it costs 700 in three chips and after the screen fades to black the poor girl assigned with the task says oh god oh god oh god now are we finished running inside sure enough this is the one who got assigned poor old Lenny each companion elicits a unique response from the chosen one and sometimes even the hookers I'll make sure to stop by with each new companion that we get getting tired of being in new Reno she says yeah after that I don't blame her nasty little crotch cobra there oh first time I've heard them described as that been worn out ever since that last convention still don't know why they call it virgin street look for the last time I'm not going to dress up as the vault dweller I finally installed that padded headboard sorry what were you saying I was too busy staring at your taught body I need fifty dollars to make ya ha la oh I'm dirty spice yeah this game was made in the 90s only sports going on in Reno now it is his tonsil hockey I'm not cheap but I am on special I can do anything you want for the right price one a dance with our companions taken care of we can take care of ourselves jewels told me to come here if I was looking for some action we can say she smiles and winks is that so well then you've come to the right place whatever your pleasure or fantasy we can provide it and don't be shy we've heard it all so what would you like depends says the chosen one what's on the menu well she says and she ticks off the menu on her fingers we have honey loving the dipstick swirl hum jobs and various other exotic uh then she smiles question is what are you in the mood for we can start by saying oh god I'd like some oral attention all right then she says that'll be eighty four chips after handing over the money we appear in one of the rooms the same room with Cassidy and this time our companions Chira-san Cassidy says wow-hoo Vix says way to go boss it had sex myself in a long time what is he talking about I'll let him go first if we try to talk with the hookers they do have other things to say but they all pull from the same dialogue pool well well look who just rolled into town wanna fly wow loving like silver right here Nick casting is a really nice guy we have great conversations this is a reference to one of the developers for Fallout 2 bit of an inside joke Easter egg there I'll fit you like a flesh tuxedo really okay this is a reference to the mockumentary spinal tab my baby Vix, like a flesh tuxedo I can't believe how many strippers were at Fergus's bachelor party this is another reference to a developer for the game Fergus here was one of the founders of obsidian entertainment tying you up costs extra child let me make you a man where did I leave my whip looking for some company so he dresses up in this death claw costume then things are pretty slow I wish that caravan would show I wish Jen con took place in some other town Jen con is a real world tabletop game convention at the time Fallout 2 was published Jen con took place in milwaki Wisconsin guess the developers of Fallout felt that that was too far away or too close when done we can go back to miskitty and see what else is on the menu I'd like a full upper and a lower body workout we can say but this is more expensive all right she says that'll be 168 chips after paying her we again appear back in the same room heading back to kitty for round three this time we can say is it okay if I just you know talk with them and she says well of course you can we call it the casting special only costs 84 chips another reference to a Fallout developer and we'll just leave it at that we talk for hours the girls at the cats paw have amazing insight into human nature and by choosing the casting special our speech skill increases by 3% this time we appear in a different room and the hooker here says need a moist towel that Tommy the balls is so dreamy we never meet Tommy the balls but he seems to be famous or infamous in new Reno many of the people will find walking around the city talk about Tommy the balls how big do they have to be to be named after them oh hello mr. Tyler going down and this is a reference to the famous arosmith song 11 and elevator oh good morning mr. Tyler going down I heard some of the girls uptown killed their pimp when it out whip it out look I don't give free samples want to pretend we're death clause in mating season no thanks acdc bnd whatever I don't get that one I know acdc is a band but I don't get the bnd part you need a guide around town sugar you ain't never had love tell you had Reno love I heard vault city has only two types of citizens maybe it was some cloning accident she is of course referring to the lack of unique genetic material that vault city is currently suffering from I hate tea bags oh why they're useful they help you make tea oh she must be a halo player I'm old spice oh no she's a spice girl okay make me melt can you hammer a six inch spike through a board with your penis you know they do say that every now and then you'll read a completely unique sentence hmm but no this isn't unique it's a quote from the 1985 film real genius can you hammer a six inch spike through a board with your penis not right now the girls got a ever standards somebody had to come up with that and then write it in a script so many things went wrong here or write depending on how you look at it anything I can help you with stranger wish myron would move away far away need someone to share your bed roll I'm a virgin I'm just not very good at it want me to tighten your screws I felt the earth move but it was just the chilly looking to pump a clip want a rassle ill I'm just doing this to pay for college okay I think I've had enough moving on we can go back for round four I have a special dramatic request we can say and she says chances are that we can accommodate you your request would be and she has the same response to both of these options number one I'd like to play the role of herk and sometimes instead of herk it says zina a new biol young slave stolen from his village by a band of lusty female slavers here's the catch he can only communicate using his body number two you have any girls that look like missus bishop I need to work off some excitement or sometimes we get number three I'd like to be captured by a sarcastic mutant lieutenant interrogated roughly then dunked in his mutating vats which is of course a reference to the fault dwellers meeting with Lou during the events of fallout one either way she looks us up and down then nods I think we can accommodate you seven hundred and three chips oh god and we appear and yet another girls room you could melt metal you know that let me teach you some things only a woman can teach well that'll cost extra I'd rather be with avalan oh god this of course a reference to Chris avalan another developer on the game need someone to warm your tent stop tickling me once we're completely satisfied we can head back to mischidian say you know I've been finding magazines named cats paw throughout the desert and I have no idea what they are I have one right here we only get this option if we have a copy of the magazine in our inventory she looks surprised let me see she says and she glances at the magazine well well you know I had heard a rumor that in the pre-war years the cat's palm was a publishing house for pornographic materials this place was a publishing house we can say and she says yes the rooms here were used for film shoots with models from across the world she seems entranced by the magazine quite a little piece of history you have there she says we get the same response for both of these options we could say well you know I just read this for the articles or we can say I'm just glad to know what the damn thing is it's irritating to keep examining it and getting that same message over and over I'll probably still get it even though it's identified now and she says you know if you can bring me a complete set say 10 issues I'll buy them from you they'd be good for a display might attract customers are you interested we can say yes and then go try to find 10 cat's palm magazines but if you've been following along this far you'll know that we've been collecting them throughout our journey we can in fact find three cat's palm magazines here a new Reno alone which I'll cover as we get to those areas with 10 copies in our inventory we can return and again talk with Miss Kitty here's that collection of cat's palm magazines you asked for we can say and she says wonderful I'll give you 500 bucks for the set we can try to pass a barter check by saying 500 bucks after collecting all of these no way make it a thousand but she says um 750 and you got a deal 750 all right then they're yours we can say and she says here you go counts out the money and hands it to us and we walk away with a thousand experience and 750 dollars richer but if instead of passing the barter check we agreed to her initial 500 and instead say sounds good here you go but hey careful with the number five the pages look like they're glued together can't imagine why she'll say really and she examines issue number five then goes through the rest of our stack hmm she says well it looks like you have two of them so you can have this one back but let me get the stain out first and we can say okay up by the way that stain isn't mine I have no idea how it got there and she says happens all the time around here Miss Kitty starts cleaning the magazine mostly to the sheets she continues that should do it she holds it up good issue as an article on energy weapons it looks like here you go an article on energy weapons we can say thanks I might read it later with that we get 500 bucks and a copy of cat's paw issue number five with a completely unique cover this is the hard to find issue five of cat's paw magazine the pictures aside this issue has a wonderful article on energy weapons and by reading it our energy weapon skill increases by 10 percent and unlike other skill bucks we can use it to increase our energy weapon skill beyond 91 percent heading out of the cat's paw we can explore this shack right across the street the guy outside says I catch you doing a Cleveland steamer on any of my women and I'll kill you what does he think I am a dry cleaner but heading inside we don't find a whorehouse we just find a bunch of new Reno locals looks like a bit of a slum they all share the same new Reno citizen dialogue and we don't find anything of interest or value in here on the other side of the street we find the Desperado casino this as jewels told us is the headquarters of the more dino family heading inside we find a bunch of slot machines the more dino goons are not impressed with us calling us tribal trash the room to the right is the couple of roulette tables the room to the left is a bookcase and if we can pass a sneak check we find an unidentified box and some booze inside heading out and moving towards the bar we find a man in a leather jacket huh something you want to me go who are you we can ask and he says me if you got to ask names Hay Zeus hey Zeus more dino same as my dad he's the big Hay Zeus head of the whole more dino family here in Reno so most call me little Hay Zeus prevents confusion you know now in new Reno we find a myriad of ways to piss absolutely everybody off and pissing them off often has the same effect they just pull out their weapons and attack us so instead of going over the myriad of ways to die in new Reno we'll focus on the ways to advance the conversation and that's to be as respectful as we can so in this case we can flatter the guy by saying oh I've heard about your family I hear you guys are a force to be reckoned with and he says we more dino's are going to run new Reno and writing too you'll see what do you mean about writing we can ask and he says bunch on no neck miners dig in the dirt but they like to fly know what I'm saying they're a bunch of camera lions we can ask and he says well when they got their first taste of jet they were yet can't have just one where does jet come from we can ask and he says the jet it comes from here see we don't dig for gold we make it liquid gold jet worth a fortune to the miners costs next to nothing to make we ship it to redding they shoot up they fly they ship us gold that simple how long is this been going on we can ask it seems like you would have controlled all of northern California by now if jet was that habit forming and he says you're right about that see we didn't always have jet but we stumbled across this kid he took a look at the crappy chems we was selling and said he could do better and he did now he works for us that simple who is this kid and where is he we can ask he says kids names of myron as for where he is that's something you don't need to know and being respectful we can say got it I had some other questions he pulls out a knife and picks his fingernails with it we'll talk about that knife in a bit sounds like the more dino family is the one to hook up with can you set me up we can ask he checks us over and then nods we're always looking for new blood especially new blood that's willing to spill blood know what I'm saying go upstairs talk to my paw tell him I sent you and maybe we can do business all right so we've got an invitation we can talk to the barkeeper behind him what's your poison pal he doesn't have a lot of dialogue he just sells booze and jet and he doesn't have any dollars to barter with that's the theme we'll see from many of the chem merchants here we can try to loop the bookshelves here but almost all of them are guarded and we have to have a pretty high sneak skill to be able to loop them the middle room is empty and we find two bathrooms to the north on this floor just outside the men's we find a woman Ken can I borrow some cash look I'll pay you back she says the man-end side presumably Ken is a chem merchant and he only has 45 bucks on his inventory if and only if we have the magic eight ball we find some grenades in this bathroom but we haven't come upon the eight ball yet though women's restroom is empty heading towards the stairs we see a staircase leading to a basement but we'll explore that in a bit instead let's head upstairs to meet with the big man himself on the top floor we find many of the rooms where the more dino goons live there are two bathrooms to the right and one we find a closet with an ice cooler on the ground inside we can get a first aid kit and some Molotov cocktails most of the bookshelves in each of these rooms are empty and almost all of them are guarded in one we find a 10-millimeter pistol with some ammunition in another we find a pack of marked cards this pack of cards was part of a quest that was cut from the game so it has no practical use and the others have guards that are too close so we can't inspect them heading into the bedrooms in the middle of the floor we pass by some guards and when we enter the main bedroom big Jesus Mordino addresses us the man turns to face you he looks sick with fever sweat trickles down his face and stains his clothes he's tearing at you it looks like he's waiting for you to speak are you hey Zeus Mordino we can ask the man speaks in a raspy voice I am a Zeus Mordino you will address me as senior Mordino a bead of sweat trickles down his forehead what is your business with me from here on out we have to choose the dialogue options that refer to him as senior Mordino or else we lose reputation with him and he can turn I spoke to your son senior Mordino I'm looking for work he studies us for a long time then shakes his head you do not look strong enough I have no work for you let me prove myself senior Mordino I can do it we can say Mordino studies us again very well I have work for you take he takes a deep wheezing and wipes sweat from his forehead this package to the stables north of Reno give it to a man Ramirez then return I will go there now senior Mordino head north up Virgin Street pass the casinos follow the trail that leads outside of town you will come to the stables now go and we can follow his directions we arrive at the stables the stables are where jewels told us we could find my run the inventor of jet but I'm all out of time in our next episode we will fully explore the stable and try to find this my run character to see if we can track down the source of jet in the wasteland I publish many videos each and every week so if you don't want to miss it be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button if you have and you still feel like you're missing out on youtube notifications consider following me on twitter at oxhorn I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else my designs come on shirts in a variety of men's women's and children's sizes and in a wider ray of colors you can find them on other products as well like smartphone cases pillows posters mug stickers prints etc so if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here if you like what I do when you want to support me in a more personal way consider becoming a patron on patreon or a member here on youtube but more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos