This video contains spoilers about the new Fallout show. If you don't want spoilers, turn back now. The new Fallout show has been widely praised in its gotten rave reviews. I hosted a watch party on Wednesday. It's a great show, it was a wonderful experience, but there was one big lore issue that stood out to me that I spent the majority of my time after watching the show talking about with my community. This lore problem is related to the fate of the NCR, a fate which I'll cover in more depth in a subsequent video. We discover that Shady Sands has been destroyed. Lucian Maximus stumble into Vault 4. It has an interesting history that I will cover in the future, but one thing we learned is that Vault 4 is comprised of people who survived the destruction of Shady Sands, and they teach their children what happened to their city, to their lost civilization. Luci enters a classroom, and she sees a timeline of Shady Sands' history on the chalkboard. The timeline is comprised of dates that many fans of the Fallout franchise are familiar with. Shady Sands is founded in 2142. The new California Republic is created in 2189. Shady Sands becomes the capital of the NCR in 2198. The NCR becomes the largest economic and political power in California in 2241, but at the very end of the timeline, we learn about the fall of Shady Sands in 2277. Now of course this has lots of implications about the fate of the NCR. Does the fall of Shady Sands mean the NCR is completely obliterated as an organization? Because Shady Sands was just the capital of the NCR. The NCR was comprised of many other places, including the LA Boneyard, the territory of Maxson, New Reno. But Shady Sands was the capital, and it was destroyed. Does that mean the NCR is completely gone? The show gives us the impression that it is. But the problem with this date is that the events of Fallout New Vegas take place in 2281, which means the fall of Shady Sands, according to the show, takes place four years before the events of Fallout New Vegas. And of course, I don't need to say that that's a problem because the NCR has a huge presence in Fallout New Vegas. We learn from Ambassador Crocker at the NCR Embassy in New Vegas that the NCR arrived in the Mojave Wasteland in 2274. In 2274, President Kimball sent the NCR army into the Mojave Enforce with the objective of occupying and repairing Hoover Dam. They've been there ever since, but they routinely send information back west to the NCR in California during the events of the Mojave that we get to explore in 2281. I keep myself busy with paperwork and reports that get sent back to the NCR. 2277 is the same year that according to Fallout New Vegas, the NCR defeated Caesar's Legion at the Hoover Dam. Now I realize that this is just one date scribbled on a chalkboard, but it's a really important date, attached to a really important faction. And this date has wide ranging ramifications. We learn from the events of Fallout New Vegas that the NCR is indeed stretched then. But they are still the pre-eminent force in the Mojave Wasteland. They've already won one battle against Caesar's Legion. They've already won multiple battles against the Brotherhood of Steel, recently defeating them at Helius I. They have an agreement with Mr. House allowing them to have an embassy in New Vegas. Why would a destroyed government need an embassy in New Vegas? They're annexing nearby towns. The question this date brings up is how could the NCR have the resources to have such a huge presence miles away in the Mojave Wasteland during the events of Fallout New Vegas if they're capital? Shady Sands was destroyed the very same year they defeated Caesar's Legion in Fallout New Vegas. Why would the NCR be focused on supporting troops in the Mojave Wasteland for years after Shady Sands was destroyed? Why wouldn't they be focusing on reclaiming Shady Sands if they could? We know that the NCR is a functioning government during the events of Fallout New Vegas. Everyone in the Mojave Wasteland believes and acts as if the government still functions. Votes are still being cast. When we ask Trent Bascom at the NCR sharecropper farms what the Thaler act is, he seems to think that there are still politicians at Shady Sands. When we talk with Tom Anderson of the followers of the Apocalypse, he complains about politicians he thinks are still at Shady Sands. There's a quest with Cass where we can uncover some corruption that the Crimson Caravan Company has been involved with. And one of our options to resolve that quest is to report this corruption to the NCR back west in California. Get on now. I'll make sure this gets west and let the wheels of law start turning in the courts. During the quest you'll know when it happens the president of the NCR, Aaron Kimball lands on the Hoover Dam in a vertebrae. Well where did that vertebrae come from? It came from Shady Sands. It came from the capital where the president lived and worked. But that's now impossible if Shady Sands was destroyed in 2277. Four years before Aaron Kimball lands on the Hoover Dam. This is clearly a continuity error. There's just no getting around it. At least not that I can see. Now maybe there is a great explanation for how Shady Sands could have been destroyed four years before the events of fellow New Vegas without completely invalidating the NCR's presence during the events of fellow New Vegas. But the problem is that it's not explained. They don't give us that explanation. At least not during the first season, which leaves us to invent a reason for ourselves. And I'm having a hard time coming up with a satisfactory one. Now some have said that this chalkboard is simply being misinterpreted. Because if we look at it, we see the fall of Shady Sands, 2277, and then an arrow pointing to the right, pointing at a picture of a nuclear explosion. They have said, well what this really means is that the destruction of Shady Sands happen sometime after 2277. Well okay. But in all of the other instances on this timeline, the date is boxed around the event that date represents. The NCR becomes the largest economic and political power in California in 2241. Yes, that's true. Why would this date be different? Why would all of the other instances on the timeline mean that the date corresponded to that event, but not this one? Are we to believe that this wasn't really when Shady Sands was destroyed? This is when the fall of Shady Sands began. Well no, I mean that's not what it means. It means that Shady Sands was destroyed in 2277 and the way by which it was destroyed is what the arrow was pointing to, a nuclear explosion. We know how Shady Sands was destroyed. The show tells us it didn't dissolve slowly over time because of political and social issues. It didn't take five, six years to fall apart. It happened instantly. It was destroyed by a nuclear bomb. A nuclear bomb doesn't explode over several years. It explodes in seconds. One might argue that the NCR unravels as an organization over time after the bombing of Shady Sands, but you can't argue that Shady Sands fell over time. It fell in an instant. If this date didn't mean the fall of Shady Sands, then it's meaningless. Any date could be there. You could have 1776 there with an arrow pointing to the bomb and it would still mean that Shady Sands fell sometime after 1776. This chalkboard is clearly saying that Shady Sands was destroyed in 2277 four years before the events of Fallout New Vegas. Some of my viewers said, well, we can't trust what some guys and avalts scribbled on a chalkboard. How do we know that they got this date right? Maybe they didn't. And my response to that is that the people living in this vault lived through the fall of Shady Sands. They're survivors of the destruction of Shady Sands. If there was anyone on earth who knew when Shady Sands fell, it would be the survivors of that catastrophe. Now, a sudden I've expressed anger saying that this is the showrunners attempt to wipe obsidians Fallout New Vegas from canon. And that's not true at all. We see numerous references to things that were covered in Fallout New Vegas in the show. We see billboards for Sunset Sass Parilla. We see people using NCR Ranger Armor. There's a scene in the show where we see Mr House. We see the guys in charge of Repcon. Repcon only appeared in Fallout New Vegas. We see a scene when representatives from Big Mountain appear as well. We even see New Vegas itself from a distance. But you can understand why after this date issue, some fans might be confused as to whether or not New Vegas is canon. But Emil came out today saying that yes, of course New Vegas is canon. Fallout New Vegas is clearly a part of Fallout's canon. It is a canonical entry in this world and lore. The showrunners did a great job referencing lore from all of the other games which makes this issue so much more surprising to me. Because the only explanation I have left is that this is an accident. It's an accidental oversight by the showrunners. And yet that seems equally implausible to me. These guys are seasoned professionals who've made many other shows in the past that have done very well. The director had his eyes on this. The producers have had their eyes on this. Todd Howard had his eyes on this and they sweat at every pixel. Working hand in hand with Todd and the rest of the team at Bethesda, there's a lot of work that went into making sure that this series continues to build on the world of Fallout rather than changing it. In games we say try to sweat every pixel. They're sweating every pixel on the show. And in this case every frame I suppose so many people saw this and approved it and gave it the green light. How could that happen by accident? How could this be overlooked? Now I've seen many people say that it's just a small thing. It doesn't ruin an otherwise great show. And on one hand you're right it is great show. The props and outfits and armor are almost perfect. The acting is exceptional. The humor and the setting is flawless. I had a great time watching the show but this is not a small issue. And this goes back to the video that I published just before the show was released where I talked about the structural pillars that hold up the foundation of the Fallout universe. One of the things I listed in that video was dates. Dates are some of the structural foundations that hold up the universe and you can't get them wrong because if you do issues like this happen. The show is set during the year 2296. That's 15 years after the events of Fallout New Vegas. That's 19 years after the destruction of Shady Sans. Some have said well Shady Sans had to be destroyed in 2277 because otherwise the main characters would have been too young. If it had been destroyed after the events of Fallout New Vegas we'd be dealing with teenagers as the primary actors but if that's the situation you change the date that the show is set in. They had complete control over when the show was set and they chose the year 2296. Had they set the show five years later in 2301 they would have avoided this issue. They could have then placed the destruction of Shady Sans in 2282. A year after the events of Fallout New Vegas and avoided this issue entirely. But instead that chose to destroy Shady Sans before the events of Fallout New Vegas. For this to be true and for the NCR to still exist as a functioning government we have to believe that the NCR decided to go off to the Mahave wasteland and never talk to anyone about their capital being bombed. And still somehow have a president and have a senate and have voting and have enough resources to not only win the first battle of Hoover Dam but prepare for the second battle of Hoover Dam and yet didn't use any of that in a span of 19 years to come back to Shady Sans and rebuild their capital. That is again something I find very hard to believe and the show gives us every impression that the NCR is a defeated entity. It's yet another failed democracy. You never heard of the New California Republic? 34,000 people lived here after the war. The entire purpose of my vault was to come up to the surface one day and restart civilization. It's it's reclamation day. It's what keeps us all going and it already happened without us. All the families you feel any better didn't work out. Yes, there are other cities that comprise the NCR besides Shady Sans but the show doesn't talk about any of the other cities in the NCR. When the NCR is depicted none of them wear power armor, none of them use vertibirds. Few of them use Ranger Armor. They are scrappy. They have meager resources. They are essentially NCR remnants. This is one of those things that I don't think they can get away with ignoring. They have to explain why and how the NCR is still able to occupy the Mahave wasteland in 2281 if Shady Sans had been destroyed. And they didn't. But maybe season two will come out and they'll pull a rabbit out of their hat and they'll be able to explain this way in a way that makes perfect sense. In a way that doesn't undermine Fallout New Vegas, I just can't imagine how they could do that. But that's just my opinion and I'd love to hear what you guys have to think. Let me know your thoughts in the comment section below. I have a lot more to say about the Fallout show. It's gonna take me some time to get my thoughts together. But I will have a dedicated video talking about what happened to the NCR. I will talk about characters and much more so stay tuned. I publish new Fallout videos each and every week on my channel so if you don't want to miss one, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already but just feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxworn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a plush for sale but I've got limited quantities and I've already sold over half. So snag one today if you want one before I run out. I have also got a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts and a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and at a wide array of colors. You can find them on other items as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in another way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comments sections of my videos and access to aux emojis that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.