In our last episode we arrived at the hub, the center of commerce in the wasteland, possibly one of the largest post-apocalyptic cities in the world. After arriving at the entrance, we traveled to the merchant marketplace, where we took some odd jobs for the Crimson Caravan, and got to know Mitch, the General Goods vendor, Beth the Guns vendor, Mrs. Stapleton the librarian, and Lorenzo the Lone Shark. We'll continue exploring the hub by leaving the merchant marketplace to the east, and arriving at Old Town. Upon arrival we see a few hub policemen in combat armor, and a bunch of poorly dressed scags walking around. This after all is the slum of the hub. The scags have pitiful and generic dialogue. You can have my old place says one. Where's my dog says another? We'll start by exploring this north-western most building. It has two garage doors, one of which says loading only on it, but this is just a crash house from many of the scags who live in Old Town. We don't even find any containers here. The building right next to it is Jake's high-powered weapon shop. Ian has been here before, he says Jake's weapons. High prices, but really good guns. Welcome to Jake's, says Jake. I've got some great merchandise and stock. Feel free to look around. If we ask him what he's selling he says I deal in high-end arms. The best stuff you can find this side of the brotherhood, and since the brotherhood doesn't deal with outsiders, I've got to say I'm the best. I have a sniper rifle, and you would be hard pressed to find flamethrower fuel anywhere else on the wastes. Oh yeah, I've got a Geiger counter very rare. If we ask him more about the sniper rifle, he says the DKS is a fine, long-ranged weapon. It was originally 308, but we re-chambered it for the more common 223 round. We tuned the barrel too. Most importantly, check out this trigger. Smooth huh? The trigger breaks perfectly now. Overall, this is a good choice for hunting any type of animal. He then goes on to explain to us how radiation works in the wasteland, how it's invisible, and we won't know that we've been irradiated until it's too late. He talks about a Geiger counter which he can sell to us. The Geiger counter is the only item we can use to measure our character's radiation level. In Fallout 1, the Geiger counter is not built into the Pip-Boy. We can accumulate up to 149 rads before experiencing negative side effects from becoming irradiated, but there's only one spot in the entire game of Fallout 1 where we need to worry about becoming irradiated. And if we take enough rad X before entering, we don't need to worry about checking our radiation level, which makes the Geiger counter unnecessary. However, the sniper rifle he talked about is superb. This is one of the earliest moments where we can find the sniper rifle, and it does function as an end-game weapon for a gun's build. It deals between 14 and 34 damage and has a range of 50. That said, it has some of the highest AP consumption of any weapon in the game. It costs 7 AP to use vats and make a targeted shot, and regular attacks outside of vats cost 6 AP. On the upside, it uses 223 Full Metal Jacket Ammunition, which is the same ammunition used by the 223 pistol that we got from Irwin after defeating the raiders at his farm in yesterday's episode. Since ammunition does have carry weight in this game, and 223 ammunition is fairly common, I found it handy to play most of Fallout 1 with the 223 pistol in the sniper rifle, requiring me to carry only one type of ammunition at all times. After I leveled my energy weapon skill high enough, I was able to give the sniper rifle to Tyco, who is devastating with it. Now it is pricey costing 4196 caps, but the quests here in the hub as we will soon learn pay very well, and by the time we're done we should have more than enough to purchase the sniper rifle. Once we have our sniper rifle from Jake, we can head out and move to the building directly to the east. This is Vance's drug shop that we learned about from Lemmy in yesterday's episode, and he doesn't wait for us to initiate dialogue. He approaches us immediately. What can I do for you, he says? Now if we didn't pay Lemmy in yesterday's episode, Vance here distrusts us, but if we spoke to Lemmy, or if our curvisma and barter skills are high enough, Vance here is friendly, and we can purchase from his shop. Most importantly, Vance here sells Radix. Now it's tempting to buy a whole lot of it, but remember, as I said a moment ago, there's only one spot in the game where it's necessary. Each piece of Radix will last for two days. It grants us 50% radiation resistance, but it degrades after one day to only 25% radiation resistance, and then it completely wears off after two full days. However, if we take two Radix, we effectively get 100% radiation resistance for 24 hours. The place where we'll need it can easily be explored in less than 24 hours, so really, we only need two of these ever in the entire game. After buying from Vance, we can ask him who his friends are. We learned that his guards are called Justin and Chad. They're here to make sure we don't cause any trouble, but we've got what we needed from Vance, and so we'll head on out. Moving south, we find an L-shaped building. If we try to head through the front door, we see that the lower portion of the L simply shares a wall with the rest of it. Here we find a two-room house. To enter the upper portion of the L, we have to enter through a door on the western side. Inside, we find a bunch of scabs walking around, but we see a room at the top, and in the room a staircase leading to a basement. In the basement, we find a long corridor. At the end of the corridor is a locked door that we can unlock for 25 experience. Moving forward, we find two more locked doors that we can unlock from more experience. If we open up and head through the right one, your bones are scraped clean by the desolate wind. Your vault will now surely die as you have. Oh, we walk right over a trap, and at lower levels this trap can disintegrate us. We could try to use the trap skill to detect and disarm it, or if instead we go through the left door and walk down the left part of this hallway, we can sidestepping it all together. At the end of the trapped room is another locked door. After unlocking it, we find three people in a room, Cleo, Jasmine, and Smitty. If we try to talk to Cleo, we can ask her to tell us about the circle. She says that if we're lucky, we could consider ourselves part of the circle by the end of the day. But she doesn't elaborate on what she means by that. We could ask her about Decker from the Malte's Falcon, who is reputation we've become well aware of by now, and she says we don't discuss Mr. Decker in polite company. The woman next to her is Jasmine, but she doesn't have much to say. Welcome to the Circle of Thieves, play your cards right, and you're in. And Smitty just says that he doesn't talk with outsiders. In the bottom of this room, we find another person hanging out in a bedroom. This is locksely. Really? As an robin of locksely? Bloody fine job making it through the defences made. I'm rather impressed. Toss me your name. What's it to you? What's it to me? It's simple, really. Tell me your name, or we show you the door. You talk like an idiot. It's a little gift from a darn mum. Actually, a few generations before that. Do you like it? No, it hurts my ears. Oh, quite a little attitude. But we're all friends here, aren't we? I don't see why. Oh, broken heart. A chance for camaraderie laws. Jasmine, show this little sod the door. But she never comes for us, so instead we can talk with him again. What the hell do you want? Hey man, what did I do? Why so hostile? I don't like you. Don't know why don't care. Well, you're just an idiot then, aren't you? Thanks for such a lovely moment. Jasmine, show I guessed out. Well, that didn't get us anywhere. Instead of being rude, we can try to be polite. When he asks us how we like his accent, we can say, it suits you. I thank you. Have to work a bit to keep it with so little refinement about, don't you know? But enough of that locks leaves the name and yours is. I'm Oxhorn. Right, please to make your acquaintance, actually. For now, let's get the other bit of politeness taking care of shall we? What the bloody, bloody, bloody hell are you doing here? We have a number of options we could say I'm taking you all to jail. Oh, that's quite amusing. Take us to jail, will you? And how may I ask, do you plan this feat? Just come along quietly and no one will get hurt. Oh, quite a little attitude. But we're all friends here, aren't we? You're right, I'm sorry. Oh, a little back and forth. I like someone who plays the edge. I think you'll be a great addition to our merry little band. What's he? Well, maybe. But first, tell me what is this place? This is the famous Steve Circle. I thought you would have known this, seeing as how you made it through all the defenses and whatnot. But no matter, you're quite promising, and the circle could use someone like you. And no thanks. I would like to ask you some questions, though. You must be joking. You think I'd fall for a line like that? Get out, you commoner! Or we can say sure. What do you want me to do? Quite simple, really. You prove yourself as a thief, succeed, and the world is yours. If not, then you'll never see us again, except if you come looking. And if you don't understand that last bit is a threat. Wait a minute, are you threatening me? Do you mean you'll move this whole place if I fail or try to kill me? Oh, what do you take me for? If you want cold-blooded murder, talk to Decker and his lot. If you fail, which seems much more likely at this point, we will simply disappear. Now then, care to try or not. Not. Well then why the bloody hell are you here? Sightseeing the ambiance? My handsome face. You know what I think you're a total lunatic. Oh, Bosch and bother. Well, quite sorry to hear that, actually. You would have made a fine thief, but the circle's not for the terminally stupid. So, Jasmine, show our guest the door, please. Or we can follow a different dialogue path. Backing up a bit we can say, hello there, Luxley. I'm here to join the circle. Oh, how nice. A joiner! Well, you've worked hard enough for a look-see. But if you really want to join, then you'll have to take the second test. What was the first test? Haven't figured it out yet, the first test was just getting here. That's the only reason I'm considering you. It's so so simple. In the heights, you'll find Derren Heightower's home all plump and right for the picking. Are you ready for life? Do you accept the challenge? Oh, it sounds scary. How about I pass? Oh no, I'm so afraid. Life is so hard. Luxley, I'd rather be a coward for all of my life than to have a single moment of triumph. Just another wanker, aren't you? Out. On second thought, sounds great. Okay, that's the spirit mate. Just talk to Jasmine in the room outside this chamber. She'll give you details, a map, and a few little goodies to help you on your way. But remember, if you even think about ranting us out to the cops, we'll be a memory before they arrive. But enough gloom, cheerio, good luck and tata. Heading over to Jasmine, she now opens up and tells us a bit more. She says that Derren Heightower's estate is located in the heights. This is the western spoke of the hub. And even though it isn't spoken here, we learn from the Fallout official strategy guide that Derren Heightower is the leader of the water merchants. That's why he's so wealthy. He has a number of guards on duty and a minimum of two, depending on the time of the day. We'll find the necklace in a strong box, which is likely to be booby-trapped. She then hands us a couple of flares and some lock picks and a bottle of nukakola to help make our job easier. She ends by saying, try not to kill Mr. Heightower. He is one of our favorite people. We can ask her, what do you mean by favorite? And she says that he has been there benefactor on many occasions. If we kill him, someone smarter might take his place and they wouldn't like that. So we need to go and steal a necklace but not kill Derren Heightower. Heading upstairs we can leave this building. On our way out of Old Town, we pass another building right next to the western exit. However, if we open the front door, we immediately get attacked by a bunch of thugs inside and this proves to be a very difficult battle. Your life ends in the wasteland. Despite multiple attempts I wasn't able to kill them at this level. We'll come back at a later date to find out exactly what's going on here. For now we've got a job to do so leaving Old Town, we can head back to the merchant marketplace. But along the way we pass by the Maltese Falcon. Since we're here, we might as well finally meet this Decker face to face. Heading inside if we wanted to, we could gamble at the Rulatable or the Slom machine. This is an easy way to earn a lot of money earlier in the game if we have a high luck skill. But my character doesn't, so I'm going to avoid these for now. Instead we'll go to the bar and talk with the men standing by the back door named Cane. If we try to talk with him about the water chip, he tells us to stop wasting his time and if we give ourselves up as being a goody two shoes by saying I'm cleaning the world of all that is evil. We lock ourselves out of being able to work with him or Decker. Instead when we say that we need to talk to Decker, he says in regards to what? We could say I want to talk with Decker about a job. He then says who sent you? Well, we have a number of options. We know that Beth the Guns merchant doesn't hold Decker in high regard, so it's probably not wise to say that she sent us. We know that Loxley and the Thieves guild don't even want to talk about Decker, so it's probably unwise to say that he sent us. And obviously we shouldn't say that the Sheriff sent him, the only person we've met so far who even likes Decker is Lorenzo, the lone shark, and he in fact told us to go and talk with Decker, so we'll say Lorenzo, or we can say that doesn't concern you. Now show me to him, in which case Cane takes us to Decker, but gives us a warning. We arrive in the basement of the Malte's Falcon. So you're looking for a job? Unfortunately, I have one that needs doing. Ah, but we're my manners. What's your name? What business is it of yours? Everything is my business in the hub. Are they telling me you may leave? I'm not telling you anything. I see. My assistant will show you to the door. We arrive upstairs, and we are locked out of all of Decker's quests, so instead we need to be polite. What's my name? My name is Oxorn. Well, the pleasantries are now concluded. Do you wish to hear about the job? That's why I'm here. Background. There's a certain merchant who's how to phrase this, not cooperating fully with the underground. And the job? Quite simple. Hunt down the merchant and his wife, and exterminate them. Do you mean kill them? All a matter of semantics, but yes, kill them. Will you take the job? No, that would be wrong. I must confess feeling a bit disappointed in you, but these things happen. You will remember this is confidential. Good day. In which case we arrive upstairs and we're again locked out of the quest. Leave says Kane, I don't have the patience. Or instead of declining, we can say, how much does it pay? It's standard pay. 500 caps to start. Another 2500 when the job is done. Will you do it? Yeah, I'll do it. Very nice. The merchant lives in the heights on Bater Street and Thunder Avenue. Your initial pay will be handed to you on your way out. And we arrive back at the Malteas Falcon. So, loxley and Decker are sending us to the same person. Only loxley wants us to steal his necklace, but keep him alive. Decker just wants us to murder him. We can speak with Kane to get more details. And he tells us almost everything that Jasmine did. We can find him in his house in the heights and he's surrounded by guards. But then he warns us. Don't even think about going to the police, he says. That's the worst mistake you could ever make. And with that, he gives us an advance. 500 caps. We can head down the road to the west and enter the heights. The building on top is the guards barracks. This is where the guards retire to every night. But we don't find anything of interest in the house. The building on the bottom is Mr. Hightower's private home. Now, there are a number of ways we can go about doing this. If we arrive during the day, we can walk to the front door, which is guarded by a guard. If we try to access the door, the guards get away from the door. Nobody gets in there without going through me first. Can I help you, he says? And at all we have to do is say, yes, I'm here to see Mr. Hightower and he says, okay, go in. Some guard. But as soon as we enter, we are approached by his assistant, who says what is your business here? If we say what business is it of yours, he ejects us from the house. If we say I've come to kill Mr. Hightower, he and all of the guards turn hostile. If we say I have news from Mr. Hightower, he says whatever it is you can tell me. Mr. H is busy right now. If we say Decker has put a contract out on Mr. Hightower's life, he says again, what a fool Decker is. He then goes on to show us his gun and points out five deep scratches on the gun, that mark each of the assassins that this guard has personally killed. If he finds out that we are the assassin, he kills us immediately, giving us no opportunity to warn Mr. Hightower, or we can bypass all of this, by simply saying, I must speak with Mr. Hightower when we enter, in which case he says, sure, but I'm watching you. When we arrive in Mr. Hightower's room, Mr. Hightower says, who are you? And who let you in? We have a number of options here that all have pretty much the same result. We can kill him a number of ways by saying, my name is Death and I'm here to kill you, or I come here with a message from Decker. If we say that your life is in danger and I need it to speak with you, he actually turns hostile. We even have an option to pay him 100 caps, but this just leads to us being expelled from the house. If we try to be snarky and tell him that we love him, he expels us from the house. So there's really no point in going inside to talk with the guy. We now have two ways to go about this. We can simply kill everybody, which I found to be fairly easy, especially with the sniper rifle. Or if we want to minimize loss of life, or simply fulfill locksliest quest and ignore Decker's quest, it's better to arrive at night. If we do arrive at night, we are given one warning by the guards that at night time, they open fire upon strangers. This was our one and only warning. The next time they'll simply start shooting at us. So to get by, we need to activate our sneak skill. The sneak skill which doesn't work if we're always running, which likely most of us will be doing. So if we change the game settings to walk instead of always run, we can turn on the sneak skill and then sneak south around high towers building. We can watch while all of the guards go to the guard barracks, but there are still two guards posted outside. Now I suppose it's possible to sneak inside without being detected, but I didn't find a way to do so. That said, my sneak skill is pretty low. No matter how many times I tried to sneak through the front door, the guard always spotted me and opened fire. But in this way, all we have to do is kill the two guards outside. If the fight takes place towards the bottom of the map, the rest of the guards in the barracks aren't alerted. So this is the easiest way to gain access to the building. Then once we're inside, we see that Darren Hightower and his wife are in their bedroom. We can then sneak into his safe room where we find a locker on the ground. However, it's booby trapped. But if we survive or disarm the trap, inside we find the necklace. With the necklace in hand and if we spared the lives of Darren Hightower and his wife, we can head back to the Thieves Circle in Old Town and check in with Locksley. Oh, how nice to see you again! Do you have a little something for me? My resignation. I decided not to take your stupid test. Stupid? Oh. I'm so disappointed you feel this way. Oh well, our little circle will just have to carry on without your scintillating presence. So said, Jasmine, the door for our guest and no return privileges? Or we could say, I didn't get it yet. Then what the bloody bloody hell are you doing here? Choo, go away! Only this time come back with the necklace. We can say, here's the necklace, even if we don't have it. Oh, how funny. I really must tell you though that I don't care much for this kind of a joke, kind of a chuckle, kind of a put one over on the old Locksley thing, huh? Tell you what, one more chance. Bring the necklace here. Or if we do have it, we can say, here's the necklace. Well done! Congratulations! You're now a member of the world famous Thieves Circle. Let's get Jasmine over here and throw a topper shall we? Strangely enough, even though they ask us to spare the life of Darren Hightower, they don't even mention it if we end up killing him while trying to get the necklace. We can still turn it in to finish the quest. And we can always pick pocket the necklace off of the inventory of Locksley. However, the resell value is only 700. Far less than the 3000 hubbucks Locksley gave us to steal the necklace. To get the 3000 hubbucks, we have to check in with Jasmine and she hands us an electronic lock pick. This is a Watts electronics micromanipulator finger stuff electronic lock pick for defeating electronic locks and security devices. It weighs two pounds. But sadly, after joining the Thieves Circle, that's it. Locksley has nothing else to say to us. Smithy has the exact same dialogue, and there is nothing more to do here. However, if we kill Darren Hightower and his wife, we can now head back to the multi-as-falken until Kane of our success. He says good work, and he hands us 2500 hubbucks. You see what I mean when I said earlier that we get a lot of money by completing the quests here in the hub, these two alone have already covered the cost of that sniper rifle. When this job is done, we can ask Kane if he has any more jobs. He says alright and sends us to the basement, where again, we talk with Decker. Good day again my friend. I have another job for you. How are you interested? Sure. Excellent. You see the last job I gave you was a test, and you did exceedingly well. Now comes the job of importance. As you may know, the children of the cathedral have been gaining influence in this town. And frankly, I won't stand for it. So what do you want me to do? A small matter. Kill the high priestess Jane. Once she's gone, this little nuisance will be ended. Interested? Absolutely. I believe I'm beginning to like you. The pay is 1000 up front and 4000 upon completion. And trust me, I'll know when it's done. Talk to Kane on your way up. He'll provide you with details. Back upstairs we can talk with Kane and he gives us a thousand hubbucks. He points us in the direction of the children of the cathedral and says that he wants no witnesses left alive. To find the children of the cathedral, we move to the southern spoke of the hub where we find the water merchants. But instead of heading to the water merchant's shack, we can enter the first building to the left. We see two big banners with a radiation symbol flying just outside the shack. Inside we see a church with people lying on the ground. Wait a minute. Are they dead? But no, they're not dead. They're just sort of lying there. They're labeled as patience, but we can't talk with them. We find a guard to the north and some guy named Thorn Dyke standing behind a pulpit. The guard doesn't have much to say. He's a simple, hired hand. If anyone bothers these space cadets, he says, I kill him. You got a problem with that? He doesn't really like talking. After this, he says, can't talk. The boss don't like it. Sorry. So heading on over to talk with Thorn Dyke. When we ask him what this place is about, he says that the church is many things to many people. For some it is a place of healing. For others, it's a place where stray souls can be gathered and put on a productive path. He says that he heals people under orders from the holy flam. Whomever that is, who operates out of a place called the cathedral. When we ask him about the cathedral, all he tells us is that it's a very beautiful place, though he says that it's a bit overcrowded these days. Sounds like the children of the cathedral have been doing a bit of recruiting. The holy flam is their master and the cathedral is far south of the hub. And together, the children of the cathedral pray for peace and unity, unity with a capital U. When we ask him about peace and unity, he says that peace and unity is forged by war and hardship. And he hints that both of these things are soon to come. When we ask him what he has learned from the church, he says that the human species is spiteful, violent and stupid, unworthy of the holy flam. He sees greed and evil everywhere, and unless humanity does something drastic, we shall be burned by holy flam again. So we were burned once by the nuclear apocalypse in 2077. What is he predicting another nuclear apocalypse? Or perhaps humanity will be burned in another way? By this holy flam. When we press him to define drastic for us, he says, who the heck do you think you are? Get out of my sight! And if we try to talk with him again, he says I remember your insult, sir. You can rot in the globe before I treat you. And we are locked out of using him as a doctor. In the southern corner of this room, we find a woman in a purple robe on the other side of a door. When we talk with her, why do you disturb an elder of the cathedral? We have a number of options we can say I have come seeking blessing. Have you studied the sacraments child? Yes, I have. Then you should know how elders of the cathedral do not just hand out blessings. You will leave now. If we say no we haven't, she simply tells us to talk with the guy at the podium. She really doesn't have time for us. Instead, if we say I'm interested in your church, and I want some information, do you have any pamphlets? Continue to mock me, and I will have you thrown out. But I'm not mocking you, honest. Then why are you here? What would bring you to the children of the cathedral? I am a seeker of knowledge. I would like to learn more. Are you a child? Lady, do I look that young to you? Mocking our holy cause is not appreciated. You will be punished if you continue. And who's going to do the punishing? Ooh, I'd like to request the extra hard whip if you don't mind. When the children walk the reborn land, your kind will vanish heretic. Leave now. Or instead of mocking her, we can say, are you asking whether or not I am one of the children of the cathedral? No, I'm not. Are you interested in converting to our faith? We can offer you what no one else can. And what's that? A lifetime of contentment. Fulfillment. In the knowledge you're working to rebuild the planet, and make it a better place for those who follow. Oh yeah, I bet there's a lot of rebuilding going on. And I'm sure your cups are overflowing with fulfillment. Your words do not match your conviction. They burn of the heresy within. You will be cleansed, then forgotten. If we choose this option, she attacks. But before we get there, we have a couple of other options. We could instead say, sounds very interesting. Could you tell me more? I seek fulfillment. You are in the right place for spiritual fulfillment. The children of the cathedral seek a peaceful resolution of our world's problems. And could use your help. What are the children's plans for mutants? Those that can be brought into the fold shall be. Those that resist will suffer. As it should be, may you succeed in your crusade. Blessings of the holy flame to you, my child. Sounds like a tough job. With perseverance, the children can accomplish anything. We will not fail. Or we could comment on her personality and say, it's obvious that kindness and good temper aren't part of this religion. You will pay for those heretical words. In which case she proves our criticism correct by attacking. Now this fight is not that challenging. We really only have to kill three people. Even though you're seeing me do it on a later character, that's only because I waited until later to do it. The preacher, Jane, and the guard attack. But the patience lying on the ground simply stand up and walk around. They don't attack. The one we get close, they do say, oh, mercy, holy flame. We can explore the rooms which don't have much, except when we explore the top westernmost room. Here we find the door locked. If we unlock it, we find a bookcase and inside the bookcase, we find quite a stash. Leather armor, iguana bits, 223 full metal jacket ammunition, Radaway, a Geiger counter, Mentats fruit a crowbar, Radix, Radaway psycho, buff out superstem packs, and most importantly, a children of the cathedral robe. This item will become very useful later, though we won't need it for quite some time, and it does weigh a whopping 10 pounds. So perhaps the best idea is to leave it here until we need it. Now if I get anyone's gonna take it, the children here are all dead. When Jane is dead, we can head back to the multi-as-falken and check in with Kane. This is a lot of cash, he says. Decker really wanted her dead. Here's your scripts, and he hands us four thousand hubbucks. You've proven yourself to be quite useful, he says. When we ask if Decker has any more jobs, Kane takes us back down into the basement for another audience with Decker. I'm very proud of you. You're ruthless. An attribute I admire. Kane will give you your payment. I hope you're available in the future. But sadly, Decker doesn't have any more jobs for us. Instead, our reward for getting this far with him is access to his thoughts. We can say, can I ask you a few questions? Under the circumstances, yes. And we can get his thoughts on what to find here in the hub. The merchant market is in the center of town, surrounded by a number of establishments. You have the heights to the west, and the old town to the east. What kind of establishments? You're in the multi-as-falken. There's also the all-in-one store, the armory, the friendly lending company, the police, and unfortunately, the children of the cathedral hospital. Doesn't sound like you're a fan of the children. What's up? They... encroach. Let's leave it at that, shall we? Have you heard any rumors? Someone appears to be stealing whole caravan from the far-go traders, and the thieves' circle is causing their normal minor difficulties. And when done talking with Decker, he sends us back upstairs to the multi-as-falken. Now, at any point, after Decker first offers us a job, we can go to Sheriff Green in the police station and turn him in, even after completing all of his quests. Or if we don't feel like murder is on the agenda, we can turn him in before ever murdering Darren Hightower. If we do, we can say, I have a crime to report. He asks us to spit it out, and we can say Decker tried to hire me to kill some merchant and his wife. Your kidding, says Sheriff Green? Well, did he ask you personally? We can say that he did, and Sheriff Green says excellent. I had already heard from other sources about his plan. You are the final confirmation I need to take action against him. This is going to be rough, and I can use any help I can get. I can pay you 1,300 scripts, 300 now, and the rest when we are done, what do you say? If we agree, he says great. He gives us 300 hubbucks, and then teleports us to the basement of the multi-as-falken. How good to see you, Sheriff Green, says Decker. I see you've come to say you're goodbye, as with that the battle commences. We arrive with any companions we have, add both deputies Fry and Kenny, and Sheriff Green. But Decker has his own thugs, the most powerful of whom is Kane. Kane does a shocking amount of unarmed damage, and he has 95 hit points. The frustrating thing about this battle is if he chooses to focus on our companions first, if he does, he'll likely kill them. If we have the firepower, it's smart to focus all of our attacks on Kane. If we can kill him first, then our companions have a much higher chance of surviving. But at this early level, it wasn't just my companions who kept dying, it was me too. I had to come back on a much higher level character to get through this. If we kill Darren and Kane, and seriously wound his guards, it's possible that they'll surrender. Another reason to focus on them first. When done, we arrive back at the police station, and we can check in with the sheriff to get our reward. We earned 1,400 experience, and the sheriff says, man, that was one heck of a battle. You did well in there. Now that Decker and Kane are gone, the rest of the underground will fall very shortly. Without leadership, organizations like that can't last. No one around here is smart enough to take up the reins. Here's the rest of your reward. The city owes you a dead of gratitude, and he gives us a thousand camps. Incidentally, the man next to him is deputed Kenny, and if Kenny dies during this battle, the vaultweller will scream, oh my god, they killed Kenny those bastards, which of course is a South Park reference. Now that Kane is dead, we can head back to the Malty's Falcon and open the door to the basement, and now we can loot all of the bodies. We don't find anything terribly interesting, some 10 mills, 14 mills, 45s. Though on Kane's body, we find quite a stash of goods, including a whole bunch of kems. Sadly, we don't find much else by exploring the rest of the basement. There's nothing on the bookshelves or in any of the containers. And with that, we are almost done with exploring the hub, though we did learn something new and something troubling. The children of the cathedral are based out of a real cathedral. They are led by someone calling himself the holy flame, and they are predicting another Armageddon. They are predicting that the world will again be bathed in flame, though we don't know exactly how they know that. Are they guessing? Or are they counting on it? We'll have to keep our eyes open for children of the cathedral in the future. The final thing we need to take care of here in the hub is to figure out exactly what's going on with the missing caravans. As we learned in yesterday's video, all the caravans are being affected, but the Fargo traders more than all the rest. Tomorrow, we'll talk with butch of the Fargo traders to learn exactly what he's discovered, and to see if we can help with his investigation. And finally, tomorrow, we will talk with the water merchants. I publish new videos every single week, so if you want to make sure you don't miss tomorrow's episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. I have a shirt shop, with unique designs you can't find anywhere else. My designs come in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wider array of colors. They also come on other products as well, smartphone cases, mugs, pillows, posters, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming one of my patrons on Patreon. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you tomorrow morning, right in early, for episode six.