In our last episode, we set the stage for the Railroad to save all the synths in the institute. We gave a username and password to Liam Vene so that he can open the back doors to the relay room. Then covertly worked with Z114. He rallied the synths together and took over a basement section of the institute to produce weapons in preparation for their rebellion. But now we need to wait for them to make those weapons. In the meantime, we should be working with Father, but we can also help out the Railroad. They've got a lot going on. Now at this point in the story, we unlock a ton of Railroad side quests that overlap with each other. They can be really confusing and honestly kind of frustrating. And so I've done my best to organize all of these Railroad side quests into logical, narrative categories. Today we'll be tackling side quests that can be grouped together as sort of radiant quests. Quests where the destination we are sent is different from gameplay to gameplay. And really, destinations where we don't find any lore directly related to the Railroad. Now it may be tempting to say that this is bad storytelling on the part of Bethesda, but we have to remember that the Railroad is a fractured organization that's constantly under assault by the institute. As Desdemona said in a previous episode, things are utter chaos right now. So it makes sense that the tasks we have to do for the Railroad are rather chaotic. We'll start by going back to our Mercer safehouse. As soon as we set it up for the Railroad, we bumped into a guy named the caretaker. Hi. Do you got a Geiger counterboat? And he uses the code word and pass phrase that we learned from Deacon when we infiltrated the switchboard. We could of course give him the correct counter sign or explore his other dialogue options. Why do you ask? Plenty of hot spots nearby. If you don't got a Geiger counterboy, you can soak up a lot of rads. Don't say I didn't warn you. Uh, no, I don't. Then boy, you're in the wrong place. I'm popping rad acts like aspirin over here just to stay alive. Get out of here. Save yourself. Yeah, I have one. And they make sure it's got plenty of juice. Lots of hot spots nearby. I warned you. Or if we use the correct Railroad counter sign. Mine is in the shop. Your HQ's new guy, right? Oh, the things for setting up this place. Kind of wish you would have set up a cot or something, but at least it's safe, right? It is safe, right? Are you alright? You seem a little jumpy. I've had too many close calls. I used to work at HQ like you, but after the last HQ went lights out, I just had to get away. Enough about me. You lose your nerve. You know the risks we take in this line of work? Of course I do. Better than you. It doesn't mean I got to like it, though. You shouldn't have any problems out here. Yeah, this place is definitely better than the last hole in the wall I was at. It was literally a hole in the wall. Let's get down to business. We got a package incoming. You know, package. I've plotted out our escape route. Got a new guy, new tourists that's going to help. He's already to sign up, but he's got big problems. We clear those problems up, and our package has got a nice cozy shack to lay low in. What's the tourist's problem? Hell if I know, you know how it goes. The dead drop says hostels have to go bye-bye, and we, you take care of it. Understood. Don't know what you'll be facing, but it's got to be dealt with. I want more details than that. You know how it goes. The dead drop only mentions the problem and the location. If it'll help us sense, count me in. I knew I could count on you. I wish I could tell you what you're going up against, but I got no idea. I'll mark it on your map. Go there and do what you HQ types do. Then Kates all set. I'll make sure she gets out of the Commonwealth. With that we begin the quest Concierge. In this case, we're eliminating a threat at the BAD-TFL Regional Office. Huck into the caretaker. We see that he's still really jumping. Hey, caretaker. Yeah, yeah. Hi, and whatever. Hey, caretaker. What was that? Oh, nothing. Hey, caretaker. You weren't there. At the switchboard. One day. The switchboard. One day. The answer to it's going to kill us all, I tell you. Now, the destination he senses to can be one of 13 different locations, including six locations that are only available if we have DLCs installed, which can be a bit of a problem if we haven't started those DLCs. The quest plays out like so. We head to the quest destination and we have to clear the place. Oh, you're really good at this. Once it's clear of hostiles, we go back to our immersive safehouse and check in with the caretaker. What was that? Oh, nothing. Already taken care of. My heart leave and broke a sweat. Whatever you did worked. The tourists has signed on. K-8's already on the move. Take this. I might have more jobs later. Thanks, Bob. For that, we get a couple of STEM packs and 150 bottle camps. And like other radiant quests, if we wait a few days and come back, he'll give us this job again and send us to another one of those locations. He stays here at Mercer Safehouse, our settlement, as a permanent settler. The only difference is we can't order him around. We can't move him to a different settlement or give him a job. Next we can head to the railroad headquarters and talk to Pam. Pam. Are you available for another mission, Agent? I have the location of a Black Ops cache. It contains supplies our organization needs. Railroad Alpha has asked for you to secure the cache from any hostiles in its vicinity. What's in the cache? Contents are classified. However, if the cache is secured, it increases our organization's effectiveness by 2%. Warning, margin of error is 3%. I'm used to handling the big missions, the important ones. Railroad Alpha wants you to have first pick of equipment that could further extend your operational capabilities. A pre-war cache, huh? This will be interesting. Unable to process verbal response. Tell me about the mission. The cache is hidden in compliance with tactical counter surveillance protocols. This RFID device will locate and unlock the cache upon close proximity. How does this device work? The device is calibrated to identify you as Colonel Johnson of the Defense Intelligence Agency. Colonel Johnson is authorized to access all DIA military wardenins in the region. Designated Commonwealth. Got it. Agent's assessment is correct. Nothing's ever that easy. There's an approximately 85% chance that the cache is in a highly dangerous location. I advise caution. Nice. That sounds pretty high-tech. Correct. The cache belonged to the Defense Intelligence Agency. The DIA's technological capabilities were more advanced than many branches of the government. You only have to secure the cache. Runners will transport contents on a separate timetable. Terminating human machine interface. With that, we received the RFID device. Where do we start the quest Jackpot? Medford Memorial Hospital. Now, this isn't a radiant quest in the strict sense, and that the destinations are predetermined. There are only three of them, and it's always those three locations. But the quest itself is exactly the same each time. So essentially that means we can only complete this quest three times. But there are some interesting quirks to it that we have to cover. The first time we get the quest, we are told to go to Medford Memorial Hospital. The hospital is a great dungeon, swarming with super mutants, but it doesn't really have any interesting lore. We find the cache on the top floor. The RFID device points us down, a seemingly empty hallway. But as we get close to the wall at the end, the wall slides aside, revealing the cache. Now Pam said that a perk of this job is we get first dibs, so we can loot anything we want here. In fact, we can loot everything if we want. And we believe the railroad will come back to get whatever we leave behind. When done we head back to Railroad HQ, and upon doing so, Des Tamona calls an all hands meeting. Half of you know this already, but something so big. I can't ask people to keep it secret any longer. The rumor is true. One of our agents has made it inside the institute. Is this what Tinker Tom was working on? Yes, Tom's work is related. But the device and the assembly was the wonder he was doing. After the device was assembled, he made it inside the institute, and then back out. Where is the institute? We're not sure exactly. Best guess is that it's somewhere under the old CIT, but they've been using a teleportation device to get in and out, so it could be anywhere. What did he find out? I know you all have questions, but I've said everything I'm going to. But know this. The ops you're planning and running now are the most important of our lives. We have a chance at rescuing more since than we ever dreamed of, so get it done. Looks like she chooses this moment to let everybody know that the signal interceptor worked. Heading back to Pam we can turn in the quest. Commencing recurrence analysis using the Brovian method. The runner should be able to get the cash. The human interface. Well done agent. Runners will be sent to acquire contents. Reward dispensed. There was a bit of a dialogue overlap there. I couldn't seem to get rid of it. We complete the quest and as a reward, we get a covert sweater vest. The covert sweater vest is a normal piece of clothing that has been reinforced, but it grants us 10 ballistic damage resistance and 10 energy damage resistance, as well as the plus one to charisma that comes with the outfit. Caretaker used to work HQ. After switchboard, well I'm hoping running your safehouse will be good for both of you. In Jackpot was a success. Oh thank god. We were running perilously low on supplies. Now what's important is that immediately after turning this quest in, we have to talk to Tinker Tom. You're the one that scored the DIA cash, right? Tom's dying to talk to you about it. If we don't, we miss out on our ability to buy mods for deliverer and we miss out on the ability to unlock ballistic weave. I know it's bizarre, it's a really weird glitch. I only learned about the glitch when it happened to me. Instead of going directly to Tinker Tom, I went off to do other things only to come back and realize that I couldn't get ballistic weave. I had to reload a previous save and do this Jackpot quest all over again in order to unlock ballistic weave. If we do it correctly, the next time we talk to Tinker Tom. Tom, the DIA. See man, the cash you found has some real serious high tech. But the cream that I cram is ballistic power or weave. Wait, serious stopping power. And it looks just like normal clothing. I guess I'm a stock now. Oh, give me some time. I got all sorts of ideas. Here's what I get. When we barter with him, we now see that his inventory is full of armored outfits. These outfits are even better than the one we got from completing the quest. Each of these have 30 damage and 30 energy resistances, as well as the associated special stat perks that come with each outfit. In the mods section of his inventory, we find a powerful receiver mod for the deliverer. This is useful for those of us who haven't invested in the gun nut perk. This way we can still get some decent mods for the deliverer. Now, it makes sense, from a story perspective, that Tinker Tom would only gain access to ballistic weave after completing the first Jackpot quest. Presumably, the runners found a bunch of ballistic weave in one of the DIA caches. But the fact that we miss out on this opportunity, even if we complete other Jackpot quests, unless we talk to him immediately after completing the first Jackpot quest, makes this a buck. Now, it's useful to check in with Tinker Tom periodically throughout our gameplay, because this inventory does change, and he'll get armored versions of different outfits as the game progresses. Also, if we've invested in the armorer perk, we can now add ballistic weave to many different items of clothing. And we see that the versions that we can get from Tinker Tom are only upgraded to ballistic weave Mark I. To get a more advanced version, we have to collect ballistic weave in the Commonwealth, invest in the armorer perk, and upgrade our outfits. By doing so, and combining them with other armor we find in the game, we can potentially improve our armor to compete even with power armor. But when done, and after completing other quests for the railroad, we can head back to Pam to get another Jackpot quest. Again, we get an RFID device, and this time we need to go to a ruined skyscraper. The ruined skyscraper is an unmarked location in the Commonwealth. This gives us an opportunity to do a lot of ruined crawling, which is one of the best parts of exploring downtown Boston, and part of the Charmaphon out for. Indeed, doing these radiant quests from the railroad allows us to explore more of the Commonwealth while working with a faction than working with many other factions. After scaling a variety of skyscrapers, we arrive on an overpass and can take a broken sky bridge to enter the ruined skyscraper. We then take an elevator all the way down, fight through a bunch of gunners, until we find another hallway with a dead end. And inside is the next DIA Cash. The DIA Cash does not have any legendary items or unique items, but they do have some pretty powerful items and some ammunition as well as outfits that we can imbue with ballistic weave, when done we can head back to Pam and turn it in. For completing this one we get another covert sweater vest. Suppose we can always give this to a companion. Then, a bit later, after completing a few other railroad quests, we can again check in with Pam. And after this we have the exact same dialogue with Pam. By accepting the quest, we get the RFID device in this time we need to go to Hub 360, which is another unmarked location in the Commonwealth. But it is in the ruins of downtown Boston. After scrambling across catwalks and fire escapes and taking a variety of makeshift elevators, we arrive on a ledge that leads to Hub 360. And just like the last one we find the DIA Cash at the end of a hallway. Inside we find a variety of similar goods. Most of outfits we can imbue with ballistic weave, stealth boys and ammunition. When done we head back to Pam. We complete the last Jackpot quest, but we don't get any further reward. I guess they didn't want us to have a third covert sweater vest. But like always it's good to check in with Tinker Tom because he's got a new selection of armored clothes available. Pam can also offer us an assassination quest. Pam wants you. She explained why but I couldn't figure it out. What's the last one? What's the last one? What's the last one? What's the last one? What's the last one? What's the last one? What's the last one? Only agents of designated subclass heavy, capable of eliminating Corsair threat. Seems logical to me. This unit's logic circuits are fully functional. Just tell me what you want in English Pam. Processing, clarification, commencing, go on. Target designated Corsair Alpha is in a defended location with lower generation synth targets. With that we get the Radiant Quest variable removal. And this is a true Radiant Quest. The destination Pam selects is one of 13 different locations, four of which are in Nuka World. And upon completion we can rinse and repeat this Radiant Quest as often as we want, up until a certain point in the main story. Because it can select places in Nuka World, this quest and all other Railroad Radiant quests like it can be really frustrating. Especially if in your gameplay you're wanting to save the DLCs until after you beat the primary plot, or you're just choosing to embark on those DLCs later. Nuka World for example requires you to go through quite a lot before you can get to a point in the story where you can leave Nuka World and come back to the Commonwealth. The Vaharber DLC requires you going through a bunch of dialogue with Nick Valentine and other characters involved in that DLC before you get to the point where you can come back. So depending on your goals, it may be better to reload as save to the point before you arrive at the Railroad to get this quest from Pam so that you can roll the dice again and get a different destination that you prefer to go to. In my game I re-rolled this quest until I got the General Atomics Factory. Now because we're still undercover inside the Institute, once we get to the Factory and eliminate all the robots there, and we eventually find the Corsor, we discover that he's not hostile to us. Always be vigilant, we have many enemies. Even after attacking him a few times, he still remains neutral until we do enough damage that turns him hostile. So it may be prudent to clear all of the other creatures in the Estonjans before we decide to tackle the Corsor. The Corsor fight is pretty tough, he'll summon other since to aid him, but as Pam said, if we kill everything here, we have a really low risk of breaking our cover. Once done, we can head back to the Railroad HQ and turn in the quest. That Corsor won't be bothering anyone again. We get 280 caps and complete the quest, and we can come back to Pam a little later to get it again. Mate, there is a reliable report of a Corsor at Target's location. Recommend Rogue Variable Dispatches the Corsor. You know anything else? The only reliable data on the target is its location. Verbal acknowledgement required. I'll do it. Response, logged. Next, we can talk to Taker Tom. Diz has given me clearance to set up my atmospheric senses. Finally, I can prove that the Institute is terraforming the Commonwealth. Eat that, Carrington. Why would the Institute terraform the Commonwealth? It goes back to the Big War. Who set off the first day bomb? The Institute did. They started the whole war to kill everyone except their own diabolical scientist. But what's that have to do with terraforming? Everything, man. You see, humanity didn't kick the bucket like they planned. We're still hanging on. So first step, artificial people come to infiltrate, spy, and salvage the metric tons of gizmos they need. And once they get all the parts they need, WAMO! The big atmospheric converter inside Blake Tower starts spewing poison into the stratosphere to kill every last one of us. Yeah, that's really great, Tom. I told you, Diz, I can count on you. I can't believe Diz approved this hair-brain scheme. Well, I had to make the sensors much more functional to get the out cleared. Gimme details. So my sensor, I call Amila, needs to be up high. Real high. Diz forced me to put some cameras, you know, other low-tech surveillance crap on it to watch the Freedom Trail. Chuck that stuff if you need to, like you know who couldn't spoof a conventional camera, right? We need cameras watching the trail. Look, I engineered the trail markers and cold-phrase myself. So anybody comes looking for us? WAMO! Spot it a mile away. Sure, the cameras could add a little insurance, but discovering the truth about the Institute's real plan is way more important. Just hand the stupid thing over and I'll set it up. Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, just be careful with it, all right? I'll take good care of Mila. She's got a lot of sensitive components. So be gentle. All right. Tell me where to put Mila then. I got the perfect spot picked out. Set Mila up and let the juicy data pour in. With that we get a Mila from Tinkertom and we begin the quest, Weathervane, and a randomly chosen destination. Some potentially interesting lore here from Tinkertom. He claims the Institute caused the big one, but based on what we've read from Tinkertom's terminal, he's kind of well got a few screws loose. And as we have found no evidence that the Institute's responsible elsewhere in the world, I think we can take what he says here with a grain of salt. Additionally, we learned that he's the one responsible for the super secret and hard to guess password. Railroad. Thanks Tom. Way to make railroad security a priority. At any rate, we now have to go set up a Mila. This quest is similar to the Jackpot quest, in that the destinations we go to are hard-wired. There are a total of 11 of them, but the order in which we get them is randomized. In this instance, the first one I got was to go to Backstreet apparel. And as we are doing a bunch of other radiant quests for the railroad, as well as the quests for the Institute, it's likely that Tinkertom will send us to a place that we've already cleared. After clearing Backstreet apparel, we climb a ladder to find a board, way down by a cinder block. This is a vantage point, and upon it we can attach the Mila. Heading back to Tinkertom, we can turn the quest in. Mila's transmitting loads of information. At first glance, the atmosphere appears normal, but I'm going to dive deep into the data. I already lined up another place to stash one of my babies. If you got the time. And without even waiting for us to accept, he gives us another Mila, and we begin the next quest, Weathervane Boston Bugle. It's Rinse and Repeat, 11 times with this quest. But as I said previously, it's a great opportunity to explore downtown Boston. This one does have interesting pre-war lore, but I covered it in my video on the Boston Bugle. At the Boston Bugle building, we fight through it and take elevators all the way to the top until we find the vantage point. And this one's a great vantage point, looking over downtown Boston. Adding back to Tinkertom, he says he could always use another one. Another Mila placed in even more data. Could always use more Mila's placed. If you're interested. And we can ask him if he's getting any data. Oh, we could just do some business. Anything new from Mila? Oh, Pams like a glowing one and a crater. Soaking up all the data from Mila's cameras. The atmospheric sensors haven't picked up anything yet. But give it time. Now's a good opportunity to check his inventory again. And we find another mod for the Deliverer, this time a sharpshooter's grip. The next location is the Park View Apartments, an unmarked location. And these Mila quests can be really tricky. Because the vantage points are always outside in locations overlooking the Commonwealth, the quest marker will oftentimes direct us to a wall. And if we look up, we'll see the vantage point above us, but we don't always see an easy way to get there. Often we have to find a door or a fire escape or some sort of junk walkway on an adjoining building that will allow us to weave through the rooftops, through ruined apartment buildings and businesses until we finally find a way to get to the vantage point. So this quest requires a lot of exploration. Back at the Railroad HQ, Tinkertom is ready for another one. Hey. Hey, you keep placing Mila's? And I'll keep paying you. You got the time? I got another site we could place another one of my babies. And he's got another one for us this time at the Commonwealth Bank. So scaling the building, we can arrive at the rooftop, place the Mila, and head back to Tinkertom for the next one. With that latest one, Mila's got good coverage of the Commonwealth. I know another building that could use a Mila. But he's got even more mods for the deliverer, a calibrated powerful receiver and a large, quick eject magazine. Snagging these and putting them into the deliverer, next we got a camp candle. An unmarked location in the Commonwealth, it's an outdoor camp spanning multiple buildings with lots of raiders. After clearing the raiders and taking a makeshift gondola, we arrive at a rooftop with a vantage point and we can place the Mila. Back at HQ, we can check in with Tinkertom. Hey, you keep placing Mila's? And I'll keep paying you. You got the time? I got another site we could place another one of my babies. This time it's the Mass Bay Medical Center and we rinse and repeat. Though the Mass Bay Medical Center is probably one of the tougher locations we have to go to, as it spans multiple floors infested with gunners, some of whom use power armor. At the very top, however, we find the vantage point and we can place the Mila. Back in Railroad HQ, Tom finally has a bit of an update for us. The latest atmospheric reading from the new Mila is still inconclusive. A wheelcash the Institute. I know another building that could use a Mila. But it's still inconclusive and he's not done. This time we go back to Hub 360. See what I mean about these things overlapping sometimes? At the top of Hub 360, we find the vantage point we can place the Mila. And head back to Tom. And this time it's got a bit of unique dialogue. Everyone's all, you've been hitting the cams way too hard. But I got my eyes open. I see. You must not be afraid of heights with all the work on the Mila project. Could always use more Mila's placed. If you're interested. I'm always interested, Tinker Tom. With us he gives us Mila number eight. And we gotta go to that Cambridge construction site. We've probably passed this place and cleared it multiple times in our playthrough as it's smack dab in the middle of where we need to go for multiple quests and it's swarming with super mutants. So on my gameplay I had it already cleared. I just had to climb to the top and place the Mila on the vantage point. Back on the railroad HQ. You got the time? I got another site we could place another one of my babies. He gives us another Mila and this time we go to the four leaf fish packing plant. A place we likely cleared when doing side quests in Diamond City. At the top of the fish packing plant we kill a bunch of ghouls until we find the vantage point and place the Mila. And at last, Tinker Tom has a bit of a definitive update for us. We got the Commonwealth wired up my friend. I'm big enough to admit it. So the Institute terraform and the planet theory didn't pan out. But with a few modifications I can see if someone's missing with the tectonic stability of the Commonwealth. Oh it's tectonic stability now! Okay Tom. Well, now we need to go to the Broken Monorail. An unmarked location but a really fun one. We got to climb fire escapes and traverse ruined highways until we cross a number of board bridges to find the ruined Monorail. After looting an end of Dungeon's steamer trunk, we can place the Mila on the vantage point. And bring news of our heroic deed back to Tinker Tom. Hey, you keep placing Milas? And I'll keep paying you. We got the Commonwealth wired up my friend. I'm big enough to admit it. So the Institute terraform and the planet theory didn't pan out. But with a few modifications I can see if someone's missing with the tectonic stability of the Commonwealth. Okay, oddly enough, that's the end. That was the 11th Mila quest. He doesn't give us another one. We can't get any more from him. And he has the exact same dialogue as he did for the last one. Also strangely enough, we can purchase Milas from his inventory. But those are the 11 vantage points in the entire game, so these Milas are essentially useless to us. You got Tom's camera online? The runners are going to find that very useful. Pam too. Now, periodically while coming in and out of the Railroad HQ, Drummer Boy will have a message for us. Hey you. Randolph Safehouse has been MIA's in Switchboard. But now we got one of their dead drops tagged. Des wants you to check it out. What's the story about Randolph? Everyone that knew the actual location of Randolph died during the last course or blitz. So this dead drop is our first chance to reestablish contact. It took this long to make contact? Sounds suspicious. Yeah, it smells fishy. But if some of our boys need help, we gotta do what we gotta do, right? Checking out dead drops is your job. Not when it could be a big old trap from the Institute. I hope this means Randolph is safe after all. It'd be nice to get some good news for a change. Once you take care of the dead drop, report in the death. Alright, and a quest that isn't... That's not crazy from Tinker Tom. When that we begin the quest Randolph Safehouse 1, we need to go pick up the dead drop. And this quest is a radiant quest, kind of, in two different ways. In the first way, it gives us a randomly chosen location for the dead drop to appear. There are a number of dead drops throughout the Commonwealth, and the location where we find the drop will change from quest to quest. In this instance, I had to find a dead drop outside the Boston Public Library. Inside we find Randolph Station Update 1. Mr. Tim's here. Randolph Safehouse was not hit, but do not make direct contact. Repeat. Do not make direct contact. We got three packages, very scared packages here, requesting assistance. Our runner reports we got Gen 1's camp nearby, assuming we're under surveillance. Please have a heavy clear of the area, coordinates enclosed. After, please pass our status back to Big Deep. Mr. Tim's out. So it's a message from Mr. Tim's, the guy who's taking care of the Randolph Safehouse. We need to go clear out some hostels to make it safe for synths to make their way through. And it's here where the second radiant part of this quest comes in. Because this quest can send us to one of 59 different locations, eight of which are on Mount Desert Island, which we only access after starting the Far Harbor DLC. This time I was sent to University Point, which as we learned from the lore of the game, is swarming with synths. With the institute friendly to us, we can get through most of University Point without them turning hostile. But of course the point of this quest is to clear it out. So we got to kill them all, otherwise we blow our cover. Now University Point is actually a really interesting location with some pre-war lore, which I already covered in my video on University Point. So we won't go ahead and cover it here. None of the lore at University Point relates to the railroad, however. It's just interesting pre-war lore. University Point is swarming with Myrlerx as well. So after clearing the synths and the Myrlerx, we head back to the railroad HQ and talk to Desdemona to let her know the status of Randolph Safehouse. I cleared out some Gen 1s for Randolph Safehouse. Randolph is still operational? Finally some good news. We thought they were another casualty of the switchboard disaster. But Randolph's been dark for too long. It'll be controversial, but we have to put them under quarantine. Is a quarantine really necessary? It's possible the Safehouse has been replaced by Institute Infiltrators. It's happened before. No. The smart move, the only move, is to keep them isolated until we know for certain. If that's your call. It is. We'll play it slow and safe, and make sure they're our people before we bring them back into the fold. The whole thing smells like a trap. It very well could be. The Institute has had more than enough time to replace them with synth infiltrators. So we play it slow and safe, and I'll have other agents verify their our people. We should contact them directly. That's just too risky. The whole thing could be an Institute trap. So instead we play it safe and slow. We help them out and buy time to verify they really are our people. Our only communication with Randolph is going to be by dead drop. Check in periodically with Drummer Boy. He coordinates the dead drops for us. Thanks. So we don't really know if this Mr. Tim's is really working for the railroad. The whole thing could be an elaborate trap. But if it isn't a trap, then these people still need our help. So the only option is to continue to work the dead drops until we know for sure. Sometimes later, Drummer Boy takes us aside. Need to hit the dead drops. Randolph's got a message for you. And we begin Randolph's safe house number two. This time the dead drop was in a residential section northwest of Bunker Hill. Inside the mailbox is the Randolph station update number two. Randolph's safe house here. Thanks HQ. No longer under immediate surveillance. Confirm quarantine. But give us the all clear soon, okay? Package one is ready for shipping out of the Commonwealth. But we got a problem along the route. If I got you an Angel could clear the site. Delivery can proceed. Missed the Tim's out. And that's what we are now at Guardian Angel. This time it's pretty confusing. We get Banc's read apparel marked on our map. But we already cleared it for the Mela. Heading back, I realized there were a couple guys I forgot. This is the part where... I'll find you. And with that we clear the way for the synth. Heading back to Desdemona we can tell her the good news. And when Randolph got B811 out of the Commonwealth, in large part thanks to you. You're proving to be a valuable addition to the railroad. Any payment for this? Certainly. Another job done. Happy to help. See you later then. Just a second. My gut says Mr. Tim's is exactly who he says he is. But Pam isn't convinced yet. Until she signs off, no direct contact. With that we get a randomly generated weapon. In this case a Bayonetted triple barrel missile launcher. And 150 caps. And looks like while we are doing all of this safe house work, Glory is taking care of her own. About to head out. My safe house kid is near me to make some booms. That's right, Glory. You go make some booms. We are after all the only two heavies left. Well, it's good to learn that I'm not the only one doing work around here. Not long later, Drummer Boy has another message for us. Randolph Safehouse has got another dead drop for you. We began Randolph Safehouse number three. And this time the dead drop is in a mailbox in an abandoned creepy cul-de-sac. Guarded by Yao Guai. Fighting time. This doesn't look right. Not right at all. We find the mailbox and inside we find the next holotape. Randolph Safehouse reporting. The package one is away. No problems. Route cleared as promised. Runa reports recipient is as of now closed for business. Switchboards spooked up. We're working a new route. If our friendly neighborhood heavy can take out hostiles at the following location, that would make our life a lot easier. Mr. Tim's out. This time I got a location on Mount Desert Island and into my quest log. I didn't want to have to start the Far Harbor DLC as I've already done a lore series on that. So I re-rolled this one a couple of times until I got a place I liked. Heading to Mount Senior Plaza, which has minimal pre-war lore that I covered in a previous episode, we can clear it of all hostiles. Okay, cut the shit. Who is that? Who is that? Fighting again. Great. Heading back to the railroad we can check in with Desdemona. Securing a new route isn't glamorous, but it's still important work. If our runners can't move since safely out of the Commonwealth, the whole organization is paralyzed. Any payment for this? Certainly. Another job done. Happy to help. See you later then. One last thing. Keep assisting Grandolph Safehouse. They've got two more scents in there. I don't want to lose them. With that we complete Randolph Safehouse number three. And sometime later, Drummer Boy takes us aside again. Need to hit the dead drops. Randolph's got a message for you. This time the dead drop was at the West Everett Estates? You're kidding me. All of these dead drops were supposed to be in safe places. I get that this used to be a suburban community before the war and therefore lots of mailboxes, but it's swarming with super mutants and has been for some time. Why would the railroad choose the West Everett Estates as a dead drop location? At Hanirate, we finally find the dead drop. Right now, where we are, totally a sniper's dream. Yeah, I agree, Deacon. You guys picked this as a dead drop location, not me. Listening to the hollow tape. Randolph, yeah. We're still working the route. Runner has confirmed the final destination. He's solid. But we got another bump we need our heavy to take out. You up for it, Chief? Mr. Tim's out. And of course, I'm up for it. We're all ways up for it. This time we need to clear the Wilson Atomatois corporate headquarters. I covered this place when I did my video on Arlen Glass, one of my first lore videos. And it's got some pretty beefy defenses lots of super mutants everywhere. But after doing our due diligence and killing every last one of them, we head back to Desdemona. With the amount of help you've given Randolph, I was expecting their sense to be moved by now. Your work, as always, has been exemplary. Any payment for this? Certainly. Another job done. Happy to help. See you later then. Just a second. I'll send word to Mr. Tim's. He needs to start moving since, and stop making excuses. With that, we complete Randolph's safe house number four. We get more bottle caps than another randomly generated item. But predictably, sometime later, drummer boy takes this aside. Randolph's safe house has got another dead drop for you. This time we need to find a dead drop, just southeast of Bunker Hill. After looting the holotape, we can listen to it in our inventory. Randolph here. Package two is away. Run a took some fire along the way back. Touch and go, but our doc says he's gonna make it. We could really use some supplies over here. Any chance the big D can let us come back in? Barring that, we need some more hostiles removed. Mr. Tim's out. Randolph's safe house is running low on supplies. They've been quarantined this entire time. What do we need to see to believe that they're genuine? What are we looking for that proves that they're compromised? Our next stop is the mass-pike tunnel. Another really interesting location that doesn't have a lot of lore, but it's fun to explore. I covered it in previous lore videos as well. Lots of ghouls through this tunnel. Great place to use to transport scents, but pretty dangerous until we clear it. After clearing the place and killing the glowing one inside, we head back to Desdemona. Randolph reports they got another scents to safety. That's two assists in your column. Any payment for this? Certainly. Another job done. Happy to help. See you later then. Before you go, Pam's near 100% on Randolph. Her best guess is our people weren't infiltrated. But the station could be compromised any time now. So keep helping Mr. Tim's. So Desdemona's gut was right. Randolph was not compromised. They're genuine. We gotta keep helping them. One more synth to go. And sure enough, sooner rather than later, drummer boy finds us. Randolph's safe house has got another dead drop for you. And we begin Randolph's safe house number six. This time we head to a mailbox just outside the Boston Public Library. Randolph, yeah. Supplies are running out. Runner was getting cagey about the route. Can we get one last tack nuke from the heavy? Pretty please. Once that's done, we'll move our last package. You're my hero. Mr. Tim's out. They need supplies urgently. Now that Pam is confident that Randolph's safe house hasn't been compromised, I wonder if after this, they'll bring Randolph back into the fold. The next target is easy city downs. A really interesting location that I covered in a dedicated video. Now we could clear all of the robots here and all the triggermen here. Or we could just assassinate the guy on the loudspeaker. We just pay you to play dead. I remember you, I remember you all. I'll say that. With eager, ernie dead, we complete the quest. I'm sure Mr. Tim's can take care of the rest of them. Heading back to Railroad HQ, we find a new guy here. When running sense out of the wealth, wasteland is can be a bigger problem than even the Institute. I have someone here who wants to meet you. So you're the wanderer. You really saved our asses. Oh, I'm Mr. Tim's. Everyone at Randolph owes you. Damn straight you do. Sorry about that. So I take it, there's another job. No, not this time. Randolph's already shut down. Is Randolph safe? How's okay? No, we got orders to abandon it. We heard the bastards that took down switchboard. Also got Hurricane Erin Allen. So they might have been closing on Randolph as well. What matters is you're all safe. After we heard what happened to switchboard, we all thought our number was up. You saw us through some really docked times. We all pitched in together for this. My team's gonna be hunting for a new safehouse. No one how paranoid my runner is. It'll take a while. Take care. Well, that we complete all of the Randolph safehouse quests. Mr. Tim's is a survivor. He'll find a new home for Randolph soon enough. Looks like the safehouse is too compromised to use further. But nobody died. And we saved all the scents. We get 200 bottle caps and the Institute Killer Weave Mod. The Institute Killer Weave Mod grants us a 10% damage bonus against Institute members. And since. It doesn't require ballistic weave to use. However, we have to unlock ballistic weave by completing the jackpot quests before we can attach this to any armor piece. Now we have to choose either between the Institute Killer Weave or Ballistic Weave. But Ballistic Weave is really so much more versatile. The Institute Killer Weave only works against members of the Institute. But Ballistic Weave works against any damage type whatsoever. Since we can put Ballistic Weave on both clothing items and hats, it makes more sense to stack Ballistic Weave than to use Institute Killer Weave on any item. Though I suppose it might make sense for certain players role-playing a certain playthrough. After this, Mr. Tim's hangs out in the Railroad. He stands right by the door, which means he talks at us every time we enter or leave the Railroad. Hey there. You from one of those vaults? Got too many teeth to be a scaven. Sounds like it's going to take him quite some time to establish a new Randolph Safehouse. With that, we complete all of the Railroads Radiant Quests. So to speak, in our next episode we'll tackle some of the Railroad's other side quests. I publish new Fallout content each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss that episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already, but just still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do, and you want to support me in another way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon, or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comment sections of my videos, and access to ox emojis that they can use in my video comments, and in the live chance of my live streams. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon. With the next episode in the full story of the railroad.