Ying Midsom War. War never changes. In the year 1945, my great-great-grandfather, serving in the army, wondered when he'd get to go home to his wife, and the sun he'd never seen. He got his wish when the US-ended World War II by dropping atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nabi-Saki. The world awaited Armageddon. Instead, something miraculous happened. We began to use atomic energy not as a weapon, but as a nearly limitless source of power. People enjoyed luxuries once thought the realm of science fiction, domestic robots, fusion-powered cars, portable computers. But then, in the 21st century, people awoke from the American dream. Years of consumption led to shortages of every major resource. The entire world unraveled. Peace became a distant memory. It is now the year 2077. We stand on the brink of total war. And I am afraid, for myself, for my wife, for my infant son, because if my time in the army taught me one thing, it's the war. War never changes. The war never changes. You're gonna knock him dead at the Veterans Hall tonight, hun. You think? Absolutely. Now get ready and stop hogging the mirror. Right. Right. We've got a big speech at the Veterans Hall later today. Any pep talk for me? I'll just be a minute. I'm hurrying up. Don't worry. Hmm, just getting ready. Why don't you see if breakfast is ready? Breakfast. Okay. Heading out of the bathroom, we see the kitchen to the right. But turning left for now, we can make sure we didn't forget our slippers. Heading into the bedroom. We can turn off the radio. Not really feeling the ink-sponsors morning. And gaze out the window to see our pleasant neighborhood. Sanctuary hills. Beautiful. Heading to the closet, we see some of our best outfits, some military fatigues. War never changes. Got that right. A shirt. No need to get dressed twice. Closing the closet door, we can inspect our camera. We really need to get those vacation photos developed. And admire the flag. Good old USA. Heading out of the bedroom, we find a broom closet to the left. But it's look a neat and tidy thanks to Cod's worth. And heading into the nursery, we can take a look at baby Sean. Then we can spin his mobile. That's a familiar turn. Lying on the diaper changing table nearby is a child's book. You're special. Wonder what Sean will grow up to be. On a shelf nearby is a toy. To think, one day he's going to learn how to drive. Next to these, some blocks. Will either be great at spelling or greatest smashing blocks together. And it looks like somebody stacked these to spell out ICBM. Beneath the blocks is a baseball glove. The gloves are a little big right now, but Sean will grow into it. And a baseball. Should get this sign next time we're at the park. Then we see a tricycle. Can't wait to teach him to ride this. The boys a bit small, but someday soon he'll be playing with ease. Sean has a small closet with a copy of blast radius inside. And then lying on a rug in the middle of the floor is a teddy bear. How'd you get on the floor, Mr. Bear? A prudent question. It couldn't be that they move. Heading out of the nursery, we can turn left on the hallway. Immediately across from the bathroom is the laundry room. Here we see a Mr. Handy box. Looks like Cod's worth our Mr. Handy is a brand new purchase. We've got a dryer. Let Cod's worth to care of it. And a washing machine. Another fine product of General Atomic International. On the linen shelf is some a Braxo cleaner. A Braxo for all your cleaning needs. Out of the laundry room, we can move towards the kitchen. Ah, good morning, sir. Your coffee. 173.5 degrees Fahrenheit. Braulto perfection. And today's newspaper just delivered. Alright, can't start a busy day without a cup of coffee. Cod's worth. Enjoy your coffee, sir. Next to the coffee is a Grognack comic. Grognack the barbarian and the jungle of the bad babies. My favorite. And on the opposite end of the counter is the newspaper. Hmm, more the same. Oh, sounds like someone made a stick, I shall attend to your show. You know, I was nervous at first, but Cod's worth is really good with Sean. Good morning, Nora. Huh? Wow, look at you. How do girl like me ever get so lucky, huh? You nervous? Don't be. Everyone's gonna love this beach. Can't believe it's almost Halloween. Need to finish making Sean's costume. Hey, Han. We should take God's word to be serviced soon, don't you think? Turning left, we see a kitchen door that leads to the car port. We've got a beautiful Corvega sedan out there. Can you get that? It's probably that salesman. He comes for you every day. Oh, someone's at the door. All right, well hold on. Is Ernie toast ready for me over here? Maybe a bagel? Oh, there's a bottle. How can someone so small drink so much? I'm just so peckish. Let's check this refrigerator. Oh, what's in this box? Saddle up, sounds pretty stink. Graded A+. Ooh, and is that Nuka Cola? Nuka Cola, ice-cold. And of course. Looks like the milk got delivered. Come on, just answer the door and he'll go away. Well, all right, which is hold on a second. I gotta find something to eat here. What's this? There, that would perk me up. But wait, I don't see any spoons. Turning right, we see a backyard patio. I'll set out in the sun. You know he's not gonna give up. Behind Tanora is a wet bar with a bottle of bourbon and whiskey. And it's a little related to drinking. And beneath the lamp are some cigarettes. Now who left those here? Maybe it was the teddy bear? In the living room we find the television and it looks like the news is on. Let's see what's happening Saturday morning, October 23rd, 2077. And now look at sports. Something that is unquestionably. It is scabably American. I am referring of course to our great national path type. This afternoon right here in the city, Boston's swatting sultan will swing for the pomegranates. Led by star picture Matt the missile motor, Boston hopes to defeat Texas and deliver their first world series victory since 1918. Turn to economic news in the day. Voltec star continues to rise as tensions with China reach an all time high. With the world poised on the brink of war, Voltec is reporting a record number of reservations of the vaults around the country. Voltec announced a continuation of their popular welcome home promotion. The report openings are still available in area vaults, 81, 111 and 114. Since the viewing vaults of 86 last year in honor of America's church and tenority, Voltec continues to expand with plans for well over 100 vaults around the country. An hour exclusive coverage of the continuing volatile situation will come in as China. Chinese forces may have finally been driven from anchorage, but the conflict is transitioned into a frighteningly tense stalemate. The diplomacy halved suspended of conventional warfare taking historic toll on both sides. Many have wondered if the good old USMA hasn't finally entered into a fight, just can't win. And now for a brief look at the local weather. This weekend, unseasonably warm temperatures continue with a higher 56. But then we're looking at a cold front coming down from Canada, making it crisp and dry for next week's Halloween festivities. Looking in our next week's forecast, we have a higher 52 on Monday. But also, if there are troops stationed overseas or experiencing some unusual weather as well. On the island of Mamba-Jao, the nights are cold, unseasonably so of Southeast Asia. But for the fifth infantry, that's as comfortable as an autumn jambore. All the easier for our mechanized health gas to drive any screaming, comi-meas, ready to the foehole sea. Honey, do you mind getting the door? After listening to the news, we can turn right to examine our holotape player. But that just turns on the radio. So turning it back off, we can examine the nearby holotapes. Bunch of world holotape recordings. Moving back towards the kitchen, we see a dog bowl on the ground. Never gonna find that dog. Oh, we lost a dog? What was his name? Come on, just answer the door and he'll go away. All right, all right, give me a sec. Heading over to the bookshelf, maybe we can find a snack? No, looks like it's just a... Law diploma. I'm so proud of her. Nora's law diploma. Suffolk County School of Law, Boston, Massachusetts. Juris Doctor. But do we really have to open this door? I hate salesmen. He'll eventually go away, right? Heading back to Sean's room, we can talk with Cod'sworth. Hey, Cod'sworth. Now, do you touch the law, me? I'll take care of it. Ah, chores and more chores. My endless joy. I'll be sweeping up the floor later. Don't worry about the dishes. That's my job. Oh, well, fine, if he's not gonna give up. I guess we better go and open the door. Good morning. Voltec calling. Good morning. Isn't it? Just look at that sky out there. Voltec? Remind me again? Why we're about you, sir, and helping secure your future. You see, Voltec is the foremost builder of state-of-the-art underground fallout shelters. Volts, if you will. Lungury accommodations where you can wait out the horrors of nuclear devastation. Whatever you're selling, I'm not buying. Oh, no worry, sir. No worries at all. I'm not selling anything. Not today. Go on. Nice to find you, sir. You can't begin to know how happy I am to finally speak with you. I've been trying for days. It's a matter of utmost urgency. I assure you. What's so important? Why nothing less than your entire future. If you haven't noticed, sir. This country has gone to heck in a hand-basket. If you'll excuse my language. The big kaboom is... It's inevitable I'm afraid. And coming sooner than you may think. If you catch my meaning. Maybe I don't want to talk to you. No. You do. I'm here now. So you are. Then I'm glad you cut up with me. Oh, me too. You have no idea. Now I know you're a busy fellow. So I won't take up much of your time. Time being a... A precious commodity. I'm here today to tell you that because of your family service to our country. You have been pre-selected for entrance into the local vault. Vault 11. But there's room for my entire family, right? Of course. Of course. Minershure robot naturally. I'm a little busy right now. Oh, of course. Of course. This won't take but a moment. It's just a matter of verifying some information. Go away. Won't take but a moment. We do need to verify some information. Sounds great. Oh, it is. Believe you me. Now you're already cleared for entrance in the unforeseen event of... Total Atomic Annihilation. I just need to verify some information. That's all. Tell me more about this vault. Oh, it has all the amenities of a modern home I assure you. Not to mention, total protection from nuclear radiation and hostile mutants. A better future underground. It's not only our mission. It's our passion. Now I can't wait for the world to end. Ha ha ha. That's the spirit. Now, let's see. Come back some other time. Come on, hun. It's just a little paperwork. Let him fill it out and it's done. Come on. You really think it could happen? Nuclear war? Of course not. But look, we have Sean to think of now. Come on. It's not like anything's gonna happen. I know, but it's like insurance. Just in case. For Sean. You know? Yes, right. Just like insurance. So let's get to it. I said no. And I'm saying yes. So there. Splendid. Splendid. Let's get to it. Sure. Let's do it. Splendid. Splendid. Now, let's see. All right, let's see a name. Nete. Yeah. I'm a strong. I'm pretty strong. I'm not very perceptive though. I can last a while, but I'm not very sharp. I'm just very charming. I'm pretty smart. Yeah, agility and pretty good at that luck. Now, I've never been lucky in my life. Wonderful. That's everything. Just gonna walk this over to the vault. Congratulations on being prepared for the future. Um, thanks again. Hey, it's peace of mind. That's worth a little paperwork, right? For you and Sean, no price is too high. Good answer. I have my moments. It's delayed. Sean has been changed, but he absolutely refuses to calm down. I think he needs some of that paternal affection. You seem to be so good at how I'm going to want to go. You heard Cod's word. Go on. Oh, really? But I haven't eaten breakfast yet. Huh. I'll be there in a minute. Go ahead. Let's give Cod's worth a break. Sean needs some more fashion to human attention anyway. You okay? Didn't forget how I handled the baby, did we? Go on. I'll be right there. Cod's worth he can't do anything? Mr. Nate, if I may, Sean requires your personal attention. A boy needs his father after all. Mr. Nate, I do so enjoy serving this family. Thank you again for allowing me to take care of you all. Alright, alright. I'll go check on the kid. Heading to the end of the hall, we can move into his bedroom. He's lying in bed as content as can be. How are the two most important men in my life doing? It's been the mobile a bit. He loves that. Hey, how's my little guy? Much better now, huh? Listen, after breakfast, I was thinking we could head to the park for a bit. Weather should hold up. This is an example of an interaction where the person we are talking to has the same response to all of our options. In these situations, I'll play all of Nate's questions before moving on to the responses. And do what exactly? And miss the World Series? Not gonna happen. Will it be like that night in the park a year ago? Yeah, sounds like fun. Sir, Mom, you should come and see me. Cod's worth? What's wrong? Come on, Cod's worth. We're in the middle of a conversation. We don't really have to chase after the robot. Do we, honey? Hey, honey. What's wrong with Cod's worth? We should check on Cod's worth. Better see what's gotten Cod's worth so upset. Alright, opening the sliding door, we can move down the hallway. We're upon, we hear the newscaster. Followed by... yes, followed by flashes, blinding flashes, sounds of explosions. We're trying to get confirmation. What? We seem to have lost contact with all of the stations. We don't know. We do have coming in. That's, um... Confirmed reports. I repeat, confirmed reports of nuclear detonations in New York and... Pennsylvania. My God. Oh my God. We need to get to the vault. Now! I've got Sean. Let's go. Cod's worth. Stay safe, honey. And your family as well, son. Oh my God. With that, the front door magically opens. And we can race off, let's go! Residents of sanctuary hills. If you are registered, evacuate to vault 11 immediately. Our neighbors begin racing down the street. I've got to be bombered! What have been in things? Oh my God. What if we can't drive fire enough in time? All registered vault participants this way! Head down to the bridge! The vault is up the hill! The vault participants... Along the way, we see a couple arguing over luggage. We're here! Just help me pack it up! Crossing the footbridge, we climb a hill. I'm right here. Go! Go! Come on, the bridge is going! Come on! Soldiers point us in the right direction. The gate to the vault is that way, sir! We pass beneath a vault-tech promotional sign. Prepare for the future. And at the top of the hill, we hear a familiar voice. That's absurd! I am the last act! You don't get it. I'm going in! You get it, sir! I got it! Oh, oh, oh, oh! Okay! We're going to die out here! We're going to be recording this! If you were in the program, step full, but otherwise, return home! Hey. Are they letting you in? Tell me it! I'm not a mean! If you're not, something don't let me in! It looks like many of our neighbors are being denied. We can talk to them. Hey, there. How's this? We have a place to sit! If you're not, we're just not getting in! We're not in the vault! We're not in the program! We're not in the vault! We're in the program! We're in the program! We're going to die! Why are you in here? It's your vault-tech! Are you registered or not? Then talking to the soldier. We need to get in! We're on the list. Infant, adult male, adult female. Okay, go ahead. Thank you! Good luck, God! Get moving! Head to the elevator! You two, follow me! Come on! What's going to happen to all those people outside the gate? We have everything we can! This way! A vertebrae lands on the grass behind us. There are soldiers and vault-tech guards with weapons drawn. Step on the platform in the center! Sir, we need to send you down to the vault! Step to the vault! Step on the platform! Sir, I need to operate the elevator! Get out of the control room! Moving to the center platform, we can join our wife. All right, that's it! Send it down! Almost there! We're going to be okay. I love you. Both of you. We love you too. Oh, my God! There's a gun now! Hold on! Can't just think! Move faster! Oh, God! Oh, God! Oh, God! It's a long elevator ride and complete darkness. Until finally, we see light. We did it. We made it. I'm okay. Everyone, please step off the elevator and proceed up the stairs in an orderly fashion. No need to worry, folks. We'll get everyone situated in your new home. Vault 111. A better future underground. So we just... Yes, of the stairs. I can't believe it. We left a minute later. No, no, it all been here. Don't get caught up thinking about that. You're safe now. Everyone, just head up these stairs and through the door there. The man with the clipboard is the overseer. Hey there. Just head up the stairs. We'll take care of everything. Please, keep moving. Up the stairs and through the door. What? What's going on? We... We just need a minute. The Whitfield stand against the swall, unable to move forward. Hey, we'll be fine. As soon as the world stops spinning. We'll get everyone through this as quickly as possible. Just head up the stairs. Head up the stairs. We hear an automated voice on the PA system. Vault 10 is here for you. All of those men. One vault simply not just take down the hole. Man. Step over to the table. Take a suit. Just this way. Just step over to the table. Our neighbors are being given vault suits. One couple stands behind the table. Excuse me. There's some problem with our luggage. They're telling us to wait. Hey. We've been waiting forever. We can talk with some of the vault tech staff here before moving forward. Sir, running some scans. It's all very routine. Excuse me. Everything's fine. Scans are normal. And then we can take our own suit. Uh, thanks. What now? Just follow the doctor here. He'll show you where to go. All right, you three. Follow me. It's now the whole way right there. This is our new home. Oh, you're gonna love it here. This is one of our most advanced facilities. Another of the others aren't great, mind you. Take a suit. The doctor walks us down a long hallway. Along the way we pass another couple, feeling the full weight of what has happened. It's gone. Our home. Everything we had. My mother and father down in DC. Oh, God, honey. What if they didn't make it? I know this is a difficult time. But Volktech will be with you every step of the way. You'll thrive here. Did you have any family outside the city? Oh, God. You've lost everything. We'll never see them again. Oh, God. Please, these people need some space. Sir. How long do you think we'll be down here? Oh, we'll be going over all that in orientation. Just a few medical items we have to get through first. Yeah, it's checking everyone off the list as they come in. Of course, come to Volk. We're prepared for the future, right? Such a lovely family you have. I hope you'll see this as your new home. At the end of the hallway, we arrive in a room filled with pods. Hey, that elevator. So slow. Just step in here and put your vaults to Don. Shh. It'll be okay. Daddy's right here. See? Honey, could you help me? Who's my little guy? I'm not going far. I'll just be over there. There he is, see? Daddy's not going far. All said, just step inside and put on your vault suit. Looks like these are decontamination pods. Take your time. We've got all day. We can put on our vault suit and climb inside. The pod will decontaminate and depressurize you before we head deeper into the vault. Just relax. Time for a whole new life. President, secure. Accurate vitals. Normal. Procedure complete. In. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Four. Three. Two. One. Five. Five. Nine. Four. Five. Five. Five. This is the one. Here. Open it. Open it. Open it. Open it. Open it. Hold on. There is going to be five. Open it. Open it. Open it. Open it. Let the boy go. Open it. Open it. Open it. Open it. Open it. It's not safe. Open it. Open it. wits Open it. You need to run. Open it. Out. And once that happens, he is suspended and the boy will pass out obtener instances of forwards on the ground. Open it. Open it. Open it. Open it. Open it. Open it. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. I'm not going to be able to do anything. Where that we begin the quest, out of time. Exit Vault 111. But first we can check on Nora. orgasm Come on. The shield has to be released.戲來了! Hereby we find a control panel. Flipping the switch. get out, get out, get out, get on, get out. Oh God. She's frozen, Solid. She's dead. I'll find you did this, and I'll get you back. I promise. By interacting with her, we take her wedding ring. We now have two in our inventory. We can check some of the other pods. Oh God. Why would Voltae do this? But we can't open any others up. The machine is cryopod maple village over mine. Each of our neighbors has a name, and we do eventually learn why everyone else is dead, and where the only one left alive. Can't be the only one left. Hello? Anyone? But I covered all of that in my video on Volta111. Why? Why'd they do this? We can't get distracted by that now. We've got to get out of the vault. Heading up the stairs, we can open the sliding door. This leads us to a hallway, and by the end of the hallway, we see that the door that we walked through to get here is closed. And so, turning right, we can open this door and head down some stairs. Turning a corner, we see a bug. What exactly was that? Turning right past a door, we arrive in an office. Here we find a stem pack on a table, and a computer on a desk, the security terminal. But this terminal isn't pertinent to our escape, and as I covered it in my lore video, we'll skip it for now. Moving to the door and opening it, we head down a corridor to open yet another door to find a room with a bug on the ground. Giant. Roaches? What the hell? Our way out is through a door to the left, but moving forward, we arrive in the galley. Here we find a recreation terminal, some cups and scrap on the counters, an empty bathroom, and a meager barracks. It seems like a really small bedroom for a vault supposed to be filled with people. There's nothing else for us here, so moving out we can open the door to the reactor room. The reactor is arcing electricity. It fried one of those giant bugs. We can creep around the reactor to avoid the electric arcs, and climb up some stairs where upon we find a skeleton in a vault suit. And a bug! Opening the door and heading up the stairs we kill more rad rushes. Opening the next door we arrive in the Overseer's office. There are three more Stimpacts on a table, and the skeleton of what must be the Overseer lying on the ground. Thereby is our first weapon, a 10mm pistol and ammunition. A security closet door is open, heading inside we can get more ammunition, another pistol. And in a case we find a cryo later. We'll have to come back when we have increased our lock picking skill. Moving into the nearby bedroom we find nothing in the dressers, some cigarettes on a bedside table, and more ammunition in a locker next to the bed. The mirror in the bathroom has bobby pins and right away, and when done we can head back to the Overseer's office. We find some eyeglasses, on a table next to the terminal, and to move forward we have to activate the terminal. We learn more about what happened here at Vault 111, why we find so many skeletons here by reading these terminal entries. But to get out, we need to open the evacuation tunnel. The personnel evacuation tunnel is now open. Find all staff to be orderly and follow shutdown protocols before exiting and resealing Vault 111. Please maintain all staff records and research. Report to your local Vault Tech superiors for debriefing and further instruction. Backing out of the terminal we can move towards the door. We're having a long hallway filled with more bugs. Turning the corner, we kill another bug and open a sliding door at the end of the hallway. Turning right we open another door to arrive at the entrance to the Vault. Lime on the ground is another skeleton. Is this all that's left? Then we find the Vault Door controls. Pitboy interface required to activate Vault Door Cycling sequence. Have a nice day. But we need a Pitboy. Luckily we find one with a skeletonized arm inside of it lying on the ground. With the Pitboy equipped, we can activate Vault Door controls. Vault Door Cycling sequence is in issue. Please stand back. The door opens and a ramp emerges. Crossing the ramp, we arrive at the elevator we used to enter the Vault. The platform arrives and we can enter. As our eyes grow accustomed to the light, we see the remains of sanctuary hills below us. We could hop down this hill to walk right into town, but turning around we can examine this scene to see what happened immediately after the bombs dropped. The men and women standing here were vaporized in that moment. Their skeletons still lie here. There's a wooden crate here where there wasn't one before. We can loot the first aid box on the wall and if we ever want to get back into Vault 111 we can push the elevator button. We find even more wooden crates littering the ground here where we can find some useful stuff this early on. There's a trailer nearby with some scrap, some food stuffs, a few bottle caps and more ammunition. The turning east we can go through the gate where we see the skeletons of all of the people who were waiting to get into the Vault just lying here outside of it. The giant sign that overlooked the Vault is now corroded, aged. Racing down the trail, we can cross the Rikitty Bridge until we arrive at sanctuary. And it doesn't look anything like it used to. We can barely recognize it. Except what's that? We find something we do recognize. It's Cod's worth. Cod's worth as I live and breathe. Oh, it's really you. Cod's worth. What? What? What happened to the world? Well, sir. Well, besides Archer, Rodeum's still being the envy of sanctuary hills. I am afraid things have been dreadfully dull around here. Things will be so much more exciting with you and Mrs. Beck. Where is your better half by the buy? Oh my god. This can't be happening. This isn't happening. What are you talking about? On by, but you look distraught. Oh, perhaps the Mrs. Kymoffer, one of those hunks. Your humans are so far down here. Spiny, which way is your better half? My god, they did it. Those bastards really did it. Everything's dead. Everything's dead. Ah, yes, the dun. The posies have been problematic, I admit. Ah, for me, the Mrs. Warehouse will help. What is she by the buy? Cod's worth? You're still here. So other people could still be alive, too. But of course I'm still here. Surely you didn't think of the radiation could deter the pride of general atomic's international. But you seem the worse for Warehouse. Deaths not let the wife see you on that stage. Where is the Mrs. by the way? They came into the vault. Maybe you saw them, armed, wearing strange outfits. Only Mrs. Ruiz's boy running around in his Halloween costume. Over a week earlier, I swear, the mother of the woman leading her brown supervised. Haha, not by this family, sir. You and Mrs. have always been such a responsible couple. Where is she by the buy? They... they killed her. She's... in a better place. She can't be dead. She can't be. I'm in a dream. I'm in a bad dream. Sir, these things you're saying, these terrible things, I believe you need a distraction. Yes, a distraction to calm this dire mood. It's been ages since we've had a proper family activity. Chuckers or perhaps charades? Sean does so love that game. It's the land with you. Cosworth, listen to me carefully. Have you seen him? Have you seen Sean? Why the... the business had him last, remember? Oh, perhaps he's down to the party residents who arranged to play that. I'm sure she'll be back with him momentarily. He's gone. God. Damn it. Someone took him. Someone stole my son. It doesn't make sense. There's just no reason someone would take my son. Sean's been kidnapped. But I'm going to find him. I'm going to get my son back. It's worse than I thought. Your suffering from hunger-induced paranoia, not eating properly for 200 years will do that I'm afraid. 200 years? What? Are you? No. No, it's not possible. I wasn't out for that long. Not 200 years. It doesn't matter how long it's been. I feel fine. God, damn it. Tell me what's going on. 200 years? That's insane. A bit over 210, actually. So I'll give it a little for the Earth's rotation and some minor things to the old crumb. That means you're on a two-century late footing. Perhaps I can whip you up a snack? You must be finished. Here we have two options. We could pass a charisma check or continue with his discussion of food. If we talk about food, we could say no. What? No. I need help cards worth not food. Sir, I have been thinking. If something is a miss, your loved ones may simply be hiding from the red menace. Or we can say yes using the other available options. The snack? I don't know. I'm not sure of anything right now. Then I'll be right back. What? Food? Yeah, sure. I need a minute to think. Then I'll be right back. In which case, Codsworth slowly meanders off into the house and when he emerges, he's holding a box of sugar bombs. Mr. Nate, ah, here you are, sir. Now I've been thinking something is a miss. Your loved ones may simply be hiding from the red menace. Either way, we come back to a conversation about the red menace. The red menace? Why the communists, of course. The Russians and the Chinese. Or maybe evil leprechauns. The red menace, I beg you to kidding me. Codsworth, buddy. I don't think the reds are going to be a problem anymore. I have an idea. Let's search the neighborhood together. After all, the Mrs. and Young Shaw, then. They're my family too. If we choose the food path, which leads to the red menace path, we again find a charisma check that leads to the same response we would have gotten had we passed the first charisma check. Now it's possible to fail most charisma checks. And in those circumstances, I'll play both responses, the fail response and the success response. But I think there are some really low-level charisma checks that are designed to always be passed. This is one of those examples. I couldn't fail this charisma check even after using console commands. Codsworth, are you sure you're holding up okay? Codsworth, you're acting. A little bit weird. What's wrong? I... I... The side has been just horrible. Two centuries with no one to talk to, no one to serve. I spent the first ten years trying to keep the flaws waxed. But nothing gets our nuclear fallout from vinyl wood. Nothing! And don't get me started about the futility of dusting a collapsed house. And the car! The car! How do you polish rust? What do you know, Codsworth? Whoa, whoa. Focus, Codsworth. Stop it. Get to the point. Stay with me, pal. Focus. I'm afraid I don't know anything, sir. The bombs came and all of you left in such a hurry. I thought for certain you and your family were dead. I did find this holiday. I believe the Mrs. was going to present it to you, as a surprise. But then... Everything happened. A holiday? What's on it? I believe it's a private message for you. My dedicated protocols would not permit me to play it for myself. Any standard holiday breeding device should be able to play it back. Oh, like that pit boy on your arm. That should work brilliantly. Well, it's something. Let it serve as a reminder, sir, of... ...of the eight days. So this is all that's left? That's not all that's left, sir. It is still you and me. Thank you, Coddorn. You're welcome. Now, and I'm feeling sorry for myself. Shall we search the neighborhood together? Mrs. In Youngshore may turn up yet. And with that, we get back to the dialogue tree about searching the neighborhood. Have you seen anything dangerous? Just to use you, sir. Tessky neighborhood dogs and musketeers. Shall I investigate? There's nothing left here. It's all gone. Well, if you wish to venture to pass unknown, I won't stop you. I shall guard the neighborhood in your absence. With this choice, he stays here outside the home. And we have to talk with him again to advance the quest. Or... I don't know, Coddorn's worth a favor. Follow me! All right. Lead the way. Proud to serve, sir! And with that, he marches off into Sanctuary to search for Sean. We can take the opportunity to read the hollow tape that he gave us from Nora. We find it in the miscellaneous section labeled, Hi, honey. Oopsie. No, no, no. The thing goes away. There we go. Okay. Just here. Right there. Right there. Ah! Ah! Yay! Hi, honey. Listen. I don't think that Sean and I need to tell you how great of a father you are. But we're going to anyway. Isn't that right? You are kind and loving. That's funny. That's right. And patient. So, I'm going to be a little bit more patient. So patient. Patients of the same. My mom used to say. Look. With Sean and us all being home together, it's been an amazing year. But even so, I know our best days are yet to come. Hmm. We'll be changes, sir. Things we need to adjust to. We're joined the civilian workforce. I'll shake the dust off my law degree. But everything we do, no matter how hard, we do it for our family. Now say goodbye Sean. Bye bye. Say bye bye. Come on. Bye honey. We love you. After listening to the hollow tape, we can follow Cod's worth deeper into sanctuary. He brings us inside the first house to the left. And we find it infested with blowed flies. Come on, sir. We can take them. Out. I'm not sure, but a few flies. Wait. My senses are picking up movement in another house. Follow me. He brings us towards a cold assack. And then moves to the house to the southeast. Watch all this. How you... I never leave a charge gun. Oh. Over here, sir. Got a cracker. I'll take like a little dust off to get the oil. Mr. Nate. No. Your family isn't here either. They're really gone, aren't they? Come on Cod's worth. I need your help. Where can I go? Now you could head into the city. Cod's nearby. But the people there are... ...as put together as I am. Sean's out there, Cod's worth. I need to find him. What about Cod's, sir? There are people there. And last I checked, they only pummeled me with sticks a few times before I had to run back home. Happy? This whole thing was wasted time. I only wanted to help, sir. But maybe you could try, Cod's worth. I've seen people in that area and they're only slightly heavily armed. Thanks for trying, Cod's worth. You can't give up, sir. What about the city? Cod's nearby, well, the people there have only shot at me a few times. There's still people alive and Cod's? Yes, although they're a bit rough. And you remember the way? Just across the southern footbridge out of the neighborhood and past the red rocket station? I like these people already. Oh, good! Maybe you'll get along then and they can help you find Sean. You're just pointing me in a random direction. Well, I'm afraid that's all I have. But you know best, sir. I'm sure you'll find Sean one way or another. Thanks for your help, Cod's worth. Good luck, sir. You'll find Sean. I know you will. I shall remain here and secure the home front. With that Cod's worth heads back to the family home and he parks himself outside of it waiting for us to return. We now need to go to Concord. But before we do, we can inspect each of these ruined homes in Sanctuary for any loot before we move forward. I did an entire video covering the loot and lore of Sanctuary Hills, so I won't go over everything again here. But it's worth our time as we find a number of safes, even some that are only novice locked, a little bit of lore, some hidden containers, a few more enemies, and even a hidden rootseller. Behind one of the shacks that gives us a bunch of ammunition, purified water and other foodstuffs, and most importantly, a bed to sleep in before we move on. Before we go, it's important to head back inside the family home. Because lying on the kitchen counter is that very same copy of Grognak the Barbarian that we saw 200 years ago. This magazine gives us a perk that grants plus 5% damage to our critical unarmed and melee hits. I'm surprised to see anyone reading a book anymore. And then, moving into Sean's bedroom, we find that special book, still lying on the ground. Putting this allows us to put one more point into any of our special stats. I decided to put mine into perception. Heading out of the house, we can say goodbye to Cod's worth. There must be someone who can help you in Concord. Be careful out there, sir. The communist's abound. And then do as he instructed. Move down the path and cross the footbridge towards the Red Rocket Truck Stop. But with that, I'm all out of time. We'll continue right here where we leave off and explore Concord in my next episode. Welcome to my series on the full story of Fallout 4. Of all the Fallout games I've already covered, it feels strange coming back to Fallout 4 having not yet done a series on the full story. But here we are. I've covered most of the locations and most of the quests. And now it's time to tackle the primary plot. We'll complete every major quest. Talk with every major character. Get every scrap of dialogue and follow every faction. I'll publish new episodes in this series each and every week on my channel. So if you don't want to miss them, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already, but you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So with Pinterest, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comment sections of my videos, and they get access to oximojis that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos. Bye bye. You