After hacking in a Moriarty's private terminal, we learned that our father, James, stomped by a megaton on his way to Galaxy News radio. Our goal then is to stop by Janan and talk with the radio DJ named 3Dog to see if he knows anything about the whereabouts of our father. 3Dog is an endearing radio DJ. He's comical, he doesn't take himself too seriously, and he appears to appeal to the common man. This is in stark contrast to President Eden on the enclave radio who speaks to us as if he's our father. One of the unique quirks about 3Dog is that he frequently mentions the good fight, as if it's something that everyone's fighting, or at least that everyone would inherently understand. People of the capital wasteland, it is I 3Dog, your ruler, hear me, I'm the Bey. Oh, sorry, that's that other radio station. Hey, Nifty America, it's me, your President. John, hang. Ha-ha-ha-ha! Gotcha! 3Dog! Oh, that's me kids, coming to your tape from my fortified bunk and the middle of a DC hellhole. He's life-grand. The boys and girls of the Brotherhood of Steel continue to fight, the good fight folks. They've recently stepped up patrols in the downtown DC ruins in response to increasing sightings of everybody's favorite freaks, the Super Mutants. Without our buddies from the Brotherhood, I'm guessing the entire capital wasteland would have been overrun a long time ago. So if you see a knight or a paladin out there fighting your battles for you, give him a big thanks, or even better, some ammo. To find 3Dog and to learn more about his good fight, we travel to Chivvichase. We follow a trail of spray painted messages by the Brotherhood of Steel pointing us to Galaxy News Radio. While following one sign, we get attacked by Super Mutants in some ruins. During the fight, we're joined by a bunch of Brotherhood of Steel soldiers. Alright, now that's what I'm talking about. That's how we do it in the Lions pride, you fucking freaks! Anitia, shut it. You'll have your fill of death soon enough. Oh, yes sir. Sorry brother. Look, I don't know who you are, but you don't belong here. The Super Mutants have overrun our brothers at the Galaxy News Radio building, and we're headed there to back them up. You can tag along if you want, but keep your head down and try not to do anything stupid. Who are you guys? The names Sarah Lions, Sentinel and Squad Commander of the Lions pride, were with the Brotherhood of Steel. We do our best to hold back the Super Mutants in this area, but when civilians stumble into our sights, that gets a bit difficult, doesn't it? Are you guys looking for new recruits? That's a negative. We've got too many local conscripts as it is, most are under trained and two damn trigger happy for their own good. Our very own initiate redden is a sterling example. Where can I find Galaxy News Radio? There aren't a lot of safe places in the ruins right now, but the Galaxy News Radio building is sort of our port in the storm. Unfortunately, the buildings have been hit pretty hard lately. We're their backup, so if there are no more questions, we really need to move out. With that Sarah Lions leaves, following her down in Ali and around a corner, she stops to talk with one of her men. What's the situation? Ah! All clear Sentinel. Five mutants released from their torment, the rest are keeping their heads down. Good. Jennings? Negative. A new recruit? Just a stray we picked up, the one that blundered into the ugly is over on 40 second. Welcome! Alright, it's the usual drill. Redden, you just do whatever Paladin Vargas says and keep your mouth shut. Yes, ma'am. With that we charge into the battle. We come upon stiff opposition from super mutants shooting at us, from the ruins of early dawn elementary school. After the mutants are dead, Sarah Lions gives further instructions to her men. Okay, the outpost is just to the south of us. Colvin, you're the eyes. Vargas, redden. Secure this building. Rounding the corner and out the door, we enter the courtyard of GNM. The courtyard is swarming with super mutant masters and super mutant overlords. These are some of the toughest super mutants in the game. After the battle, the brotherhood soldiers take stock of the situation. We're clear out here. Stand down. We need to sweep the area. You think those were all the ugly's in DC? You take the east side, I'll go west. Okay. Okay. Once we're inside, then we'll celebrate. Now you're talking. Following red and east, we suddenly hear... A super mutant behemoth crawls from the rubble. And his body collapses down upon the corpse of initiate redding. She died in the blast when the super mutant behemoth knocked the bus into the courtyard. Her death is hard on her squadmates. It's not your fault, Vargas. Redden was good enough for the pride and she proved it here today. Yeah. Damn it. When we get back to the Citadel, I'll talk to the scribes. Let it be chronicled. The Paladin Redden passed her test. Come on. Let's see if they've got anything you drink. Now that GNM is safe to enter, we can loot the courtyard where we can salvage a bunch of T-45 power armor. I walked away with four suits of power armor, allowing me to repair my own and fully equip my companion Sharon. And then we can request entry using the innercom outside. Looks like it's all clear, unlocking outer doors. Once inside, we find Knight's Dylan and Finley guarding the entrance. Please to meet you. I'm Knight Dylan. If there's anything you need here, I'll try and help. What's this building for, Knight? You got a Pip Boy. Soon into Galaxy News Radio and listen. See only radio station in the capital wasteland, it really tells it like it is. This is Galaxy News Radio. The last free voice of the people of the wasteland. The brotherhood of steel makes sure of that. I need to speak to three dog. You can head right on up. He's waiting for you. We can then explore the building. We overhear Lions pride talking about another super mutant behemoth sighting in the Evergreen Mills area. Heading upstairs, we can talk with Sentinel Lions to learn a little bit more about free dog. I guess it's my turn to thank you. Anyway, the area is secure. So you're free to talk to three dog if you need to. Anything else you can tell me about GNR? Well, the brotherhood needed a secure outpost and the guy who runs the radio station needed to not get his head ripped off by super mutants. It's a mutually beneficial relationship. Three dog is the man in charge. He keeps that signal broadcasting pretty much single-handedly. He's um... interesting. I'll give him that much. Hey, I'm sorry about initiate Redden. She died well. In the end, that's all that really matters. After giving Lions our condolences, we can open the main door to the studio. Waiting for us at the top of the stairs is three dog himself. The look on your face says it all. You're wondering who the heck this guy is and why you should care. Well, prepare to be enlightened. I am three dog, jocky of discs and tell of truths. Lord and master over the finest radio station to grace the wastes, galaxy news radio. And you? Well, I know who you are. I heard about you leaving that vault, traveling the unknown, just like dear old Dan, huh? Met him already. What's with the flashy introduction? Hey, when you're in the good fight, you gotta give it all you got and never ever hold back. Always dazzle him. I always say. Always dazzle him and spread the word. Hey, you're that guy from the radio. Yup, guilty as charged. I don't usually have exposure to the public like this. It's nice to know someone's listening. Makes caring on the good fight and had much easier. The good fight, what's that all about? Imagine a picture, okay? A picture of the capital wasteland, all that brick and rock, a whole lot of nothing, right? There's people out there trying to just barely make it from day to day. They're fighting to stay alive and make something out of what they got. But then you've got all kinds of shit, slavers, super mutants, raiders. They all want a slice of the pie too. And they need to take it by force. So, people fight back. They can't, not against those kind of enemies. They just run away and hide or they stay and die. They just ain't right. So that's where I enter the picture. I fight the good fight with GNR as my gun. The sound of truth goes out across the capital wasteland. Hell, someone's got to counter that bullshit on the enclave station. Tell me more about your radio station. Without this place, DC would be filled with that crap the enclave keeps shoveling out of their radio station, and festering with muties. Someone's got to tell the wasteland is what time it is, and three dogs is the one to do it. No one knows what Eden and his horsemen of the apocalypse are up to, but you can be sure it isn't in the common man's best interest. So what's your story, three dog? Three dogs, seen it all. The capital wasteland had its ugliest. People killed for scraps of food, wounded children wandering aimlessly, some seriously fucked up shit. If it wasn't for the good fight, I think I would have gone crazy by now. Why bother operating galaxy news radio? Why candy-coat the news when the world is in danger? People like the enclave would have you believe everything is calm and totally under control. They're lying. Hell, President Eden goes around spreading peace, love, and government, but no one even knows how old that enclave signal really is. People need to hear the truth. It's a harsh world. We've got to work together to make it better. Not wait for uncle Sam to ride in and save the day. You're safe up here in your fortress. What do you know about fighting? You've got to understand. If I die, soul does the voice of a people. I can't take that risk. Your idea of saving the world means combing through the rubble and using a gun. I use my voice. We're two sides of the same coin. If you think always being a target of your enemies is safe, then you've got a funny way of looking at things. I'm amazed you're still alive. Oh, I have plenty of enemies that would love nothing more than to put a bullet between my eyes. The only thing keeping that from happening is Sarah Lyons and the brotherhood of steel. We've broken a sweet deal. They keep me from taking a dirt nap and I keep a strong roof over their head. I wish I could have met your parents. I bet they were interesting. Parents? Ha! I was born from the sun and have sand in my veins. Ha! Ha! Just messing with you. My parents were very cool. They preached all about the haters and their bullshit. How to tell the propaganda from the real deal? I see. See you fight the good fight with your voice on Galaxy News Radio. Well, holy shit. Aren't you a chip off the old block? You are as smart as your dad. Since you know all about this cause, no need to explain the effect. Let's get you on your way. Words don't kill people. Guns do. You're absolutely right. But words get more and more people to join the cause. Guns just create more casualties on your side. But enough yarns spinning. Let's figure out your place in the good fight. Then maybe we can help you. The guys outside the brotherhood of steel. Who exactly are they? From what I saw, they were the ones who saved your ass. They keep the ruin super mutant free so people like you can get to people like me in one piece. Without them, we'd be knee deep in muties shit. Well, it's good to meet you three dog, but can you help me out? I'm trying to find my dad. There are different fronts to every fight. Galaxy News Radio is one of them. I need help with the old girl though. Because she's hurting. So I'd like to share, I really would. But if I help you and you just leave me hanging, I would have failed the fight. And that can't happen, dig. Look, if you know anything that can help me find my dad, please, just tell me. You want to find your dad. And it just so happens, his location is known to yours truly. We was here with Galaxy News. We had a great conversation. He's a real stand up guy. If you want to know more, you're gonna have to contribute to the good fight. All right, to find my dad, I'm ready for anything. Good, because this isn't gonna be easy. Galaxy News Radio is my baby. I love it. I feed it. I keep it changed. But this one problem. No one outside a D-seek and hear a cry. You see some brainless super mutant thought it would be funny to shoot at the shiny round thing on the wash of the monument. Oh man, I don't like the sound of this at all. Oh, it gets worse. So, I have to get to blown up by looking at how to replace the sucker. Guess what? The factory that made the relay dishes is long gone, leveled. As in, we'll never find that part again. All right, well, how can I help? One of the brotherhood guys that passed through here mentioned saying a dish in one of D-seek's old museums. It's the dish off the old Virgo 2 Lunar Lander in the museum of technology. I want you to get it and bring it to the wash-in-en monument to replace the bad one. That's it. Why do you need this relay? Well, if you check out your radio, you can hear pretty good in this place. Get a few blocks away. Still not too bad. Maybe a little static. Step outside the city limit, and it's snake city. Nothing but... Ssssss. With the relay back on, you'll hear a G&R clearly in the whole capital wasteland area like it used to be. You have got yourself a deal. Hehehe! I sure know how to pick them. You're gonna be the best thing that ever happened to Galaxy News in a long time. If you need any more info, I'll be here waiting for you. What's the best way to get to the museum? Head out the back door of G&R and take the collapse car tunnel to the other side of Dupont. Then take the Metro tunnels and tell you there. Hey, be careful though. You'll have to find another way back because it's a one-way trip. Now, we can skip this entire quest by passing a speech check to say, look three dog, if I find my dad, maybe he can help with the good fight. Well, your dad is some sort of scientist type. Some kind of egghead or something. You really think if you find him, he'd help our cause? Oh, I know he will. He's always talked about doing what's right. When your dad passed through here, I spent a good long time talking to him about all kinds of stuff. He mentioned some scientific mumbo jumbo which didn't make much sense to me. Hmm, something about a project purity. He also said something about going to visit a Dr. Lee in Rivet City. Then he left in a hurry. Then Rivet City is where I'm headed. Goodbye, three dog. Goodbye. Remember to keep us tuned in while you're out there and watch yourself. Don't forget about your promise. Make sure your dad knows about the good fight. And as always, we can be uncooperative with three dog and refuse to help him out. If we do, we learn more about how important the good fight is to three dog. We can say, look, I need to find my dad. I don't have time for this nonsense. Three dog is many things, but one thing he isn't is a push over. It's obvious you're narrow focus and can't see the bigger picture. Fine. I may have the answers you want. We've got one rule in the good fight though. You want help? You gotta contribute. Look, I don't care about your good fight. Are you gonna help me or not? Okay friend, I've been calm, I've been cool. Now I've had enough of your hostility. You want to be all business? Fine. I can play like that. You want daddy? You help me. End of story. You ready or what? Hey, you're blackmailing me. I want to make sure I'm perfectly clear on this. The good fight is bigger than you and your dad. I'll do whatever it takes to keep the capital wasteland free. Whatever it takes. And right now without G&R at full strength, my words are being wasted. That's just inacceptible. I don't think I can handle this three dog. Well, I guess I was wrong about you. Maybe you don't have that spark. I would never make a man do what he doesn't want to do. That's what freedom is all about. But I have to stick to the deal. No dish, no dad. You'll be on your own. You sure you want it that way? No way. I'm not fitching some stupid dish for you. You aren't getting the dish for me. You're getting it for you. If you need some time to think it over, that's cool. But the longer G&R is quiet, the longer you have to wait. So to get the information we need to find our dad we either have to complete this quest for three dog or pass the speech check. He is completely inflexible. Now at any time, we can kill three dog. If we do, the next time we listen to Galaxy News Radio, three dogs technician Margaret takes to the microphone. Margaret here bringing you a music. Why just music? Because I'm just a technician and some asshole murdered our DJ. Hooray. This is Margaret again with another fun tabulous round of ancient music. Three dogs dead and that's all I've got. It's me again, Margaret the technician talking into the microphone and hoping somebody gives a shit. Enjoy the music. If three dog were here, he'd say something witty. But he's not. Because somebody killed him. So you get me playing music. Yeah. This is Margaret and you're listening to... Oh hell with it. Listen to some music and pray we find someone to replace three dog. Well as charming as I'm sure Margaret must be in person, I do think that three dog is much better at this whole radio business. So let's keep the man alive. Now three dog gave us some excellent directions to get to the mall and it's pretty simple to get there from here. Heading out the back door of this building, we can hop down some rubble until we find the entrance to Metro Junction. From here we wind a familiar path through the Metro Tunnels of DC until we reach the mall. From the mall it's a short walk to the Museum of Technology which is a fascinating building. Many of the exhibits are still on display. Don't worry I'm gonna be doing an entire video dedicated to this place where we will explore all of the exhibits. But the one we are interested in is the Virgo 2 Lunar Lander. We find this deep in the bowels of the building. Once we discover it we can rip the communications dish from off of the lander and then we need to go back outside the Museum of Technology. Heading west we see the Washington Monument towering in the distance. This thankfully is already in the capable hands of the brotherhood of steel. All we have to do is access an nearby terminal to open the main doors. Through the doors we can enter the monument. The ground floor is pretty small, no loot, just a few minor rooms. To scale the tower we need to activate the iconic elevator. We take the elevator all the way to the top and it's here where we find a bit of loot. Lots of ammunition lying on the ground, a place to sleep and in the eastern corner we find a bit of machinery. Activating the machinery we can attach the Virgo 2 Communications dish to the outside of the monument. When done we can go back down the elevator and head back to 3-dog at GNR. Hey alright! The hero of the wasteland returns! Thanks 3-dog, I was just glad to help with the good fight. Hey, you're the one that deserves all the thanks. You struck a major blow against tyranny. Now GNR can be heard clear across the capital wasteland again. They'll give Eden and those muties something to think about. How are things now that the powers back? I can't even tell you the love I'm getting from the wasteland. Ever since GNR started singing again, the guys downstairs told me that more people than ever are tuning in. It's all I ever wanted. Alright, well I gotta go now thanks 3-dog. Anytime you need a place to crash, duck in here. Be glad to provide. With that we complete the quest and we can continue our search for James. We can also use the bed here. It's no longer set to owned. So we can sleep here if we want but sadly all of the containers are still owned. Now one of the reasons I wanted to do this video is so that we could talk about the good fight. Here we have a guy, 3-dog, who's not content with mere survival. He was born into and lives in the same post-apocalyptic world. Every other wastelander in the DC ruins was born into. He's not part of any great army. He wasn't born with an affiliation to any major faction. And yet he still has a personal code of ethics. He's come up with a world philosophy that he thinks is universal. The good fight. This is 3-dog's universal morality. He's not content with the state of the wasteland. He doesn't believe in business as usual. He believes that there is a way to properly act. Which is why as the game goes on, he continually comments on your exploits around the capital wasteland. If for example you do good decisions, he'll say things like this about you on his radio broadcasts. It's time for an update on the Vault 101 Peacekeeper, a man who proves that not everyone out there is a complete asshole. Got some great news out of the town of Megatown. Turns out the live atomic bomb in the town center has finally been deep-sixced for good. The town sheriff won Lucas Sins, commissioned the one the only lone wanderer from Vault 101 to design the nasty nuke. And the kid delivered. Hey, nice work 101. Next time you're in the neighborhood, pop into the studio. All 3 dogs, toasters, been on the Fritz. But he also believes in evil, in moral wrong. And if we do things that he thinks are wrong, like murder or blow up an entire town, he'll comment upon our behaviors like this. And now the latest on that enigmatic vault outlaw. We only recently stepped out of Vault 101 and enter our nightmares. Children, I'm afraid I've got some terrible, terrible news. The G&R sources have confirmed that the mushroom cloud seen in the vicinity of Megatown was in fact... Megatown. It's been no secret that the pre-war nuke in the center of town had a live atomic core. And under the wrong conditions could still go kaboom. Well, go kaboom it has. But it was all just a tragic accident. Right. Don't you believe that for a second folks? Word is that twisted old land grabber, Alistair Tenpenny, founder of the posh Tenpenny Tower, has been looking to secure that spot for years. But just who did the dirty deed? Ask yourself this. Why is the kid from Vault 101 been sighted hanging around Tenpenny Tower? Why indeed? Some may say that 3Dog doesn't truly understand the post-apocalypse. 3Dog is stuck with pre-war morality, a pre-war morality that doesn't exist in 2277. And yet 3Dog lives in 2277. He is a product of 2277 and he's not alone. He has found people that believe the same way he does. His broadcast is popular. One of the reasons it's popular is because wastelanders of the wasteland can relate to it. They, like 3Dog, are tired of raiders and slavers. They, like 3Dog, just want to live their lives. They, like 3Dog, want to fight the good fight. One of the reasons he is able to do what he does is because an entire faction has decided to defend him. Within the Brotherhood of Steel, we find individual people who all believe the same way 3Dog does. That the violence of super mutants must be resisted. That when raiders steal, murder, or enslaved people, they must be destroyed. Because that behavior is unacceptable, unacceptable even in a post-apocalyptic world. When I defend the morally good choices in these games, or when I do a video on why I believe the Minutemen are the strongest faction, I often get pushback from viewers who will say things like, Oxhorn, you would never survive the apocalypse. Oxhorn, your mentality, is outdated. Morality doesn't exist. It's all about survival, and people are expendable when it comes to your own survival. So I wanted to point out this story where we find a man and an entire faction who live in the same post-apocalyptic world, but still fight the good fight. I think their success, so far, is evidence that fighting the good fight is not a weakness. It's not naive. It's not something that wouldn't exist in a post-apocalypse. I think the existence of Lions' Brotherhood of Steel, the existence of the Minutemen, alongside the existence of Raiders and Talon Company, shows that in a far distant future, if there ever was to be an apocalypse, we would find the same kind of people whom we find today. We would find some people who cherish life, who believe that the weak are worth helping, even if they hurt, our chances of survival. And we will find people who are solely wrapped up in themselves, their survival, their possessions, and what they want at the expense of other people. I don't think evil is suddenly more acceptable, or should be considered to be less evil just because it's a post-apocalypse. Evil may become more prevalent in a post-apocalypse just because evil is easier. It's easier to take what you want. It's much harder to earn what you want. It's easier to destroy its harder to build. In a post-apocalyptic world without the creature comforts of our own, it may be true that there would be more people inclined towards evil because fighting the good fight is that much harder, requires so much more effort. But I think it would be incorrect to say that good and evil don't exist in the post-apocalypse, to say that morality is a fantasy, it's a fabrication. It's clear that there are people in the post-apocalypse like three-dog who believe that good and evil do exist, and as long as there are people who believe in good and evil, then morality is real. The good fight exists, both in our world and the world of Fallout, and I think the good fight is what makes these games interesting, seeing the ramifications of choosing good as a post-evil, and it is that richness of possibility that I think makes the Fallout franchise so compelling. But those are just my thoughts. What are your thoughts about the good fight? And what about three-dog? Do you think he is one of the best DJs in the Fallout franchise like I do? Or do you think that he is naive and you find his constant ramblings about the good fight to be annoying? Let me know your thoughts in the comment section below. I publish a new Fallout video six days a week, so if you want to make sure that you don't miss my next one, be sure to subscribe and click that bell notification button. And if you like what I do, and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming one of my patrons on Patreon. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you tomorrow morning, bright and early, with a brand new video.