NATIONAL Now In our last video, we had a taste of the amazing aquacura and resolved one way or another, the situation with Griffin. Now we can head to the Rockland Car Tunnel to meet up with Paladin Tristan. Along the way I dropped off some pre-war books with scribe yearling at the Arlington Library, but as I was leaving, I got attacked by talent company from the nearby ruins. Here we clear it, the enclave arrives. However the enclave bombing talent company, do they consider the mercs to be a threat? We explored this little talent company camp in my video on the Arlington Library, which you can watch here. But one thing we didn't see at that time is just around the corner. Coming in the middle of the street is a distinctive yellow aquacura barrel. Oh no, did the brotherhood or rivet city accidently drop this here? We should let someone else so they can come get it. No more games. But just then. That's a trap. A bit too warmed up, Fox. Talent company ambushes us from the ruins. Talent company is using aquacura to weigh lay travelers. While we don't really have time to deal with this, Paladin Tristan is waiting for us. But then as I traveled up the road past the Nukar Cola plant, I saw fighting. Fighting off in the distance between Raiders and Talent company. After the dust settles, we see what the fight was all about. Off to the side of the road is another packaged barrel of aquacura. Talent company and the Raiders were fighting over it. Was this just coincidence? Or is it all part of Talent company's greater scheme? I wanted to learn more about it. And so I traveled to one of the known Talent company camps right outside the capital building in Suward Square. But upon arrival. Oh, the enclave. And we've come to the Talent company camp. But it looks like they missed. We see them still moving around in their fortification. So we can take them out. Heading forward, we can loot the corpses of Talent company. Then on the other side of the Sandbag Barricade, we can loot some scrap, a first aid kit, an ammo canister on a shelf with some darts on the top. And on a shelf to the northeast, we find a bunch of railway spikes and fragments. Then turning around, we can loot another ammo canister and first aid kit. And then we find a holotape. Talent company Murklogg number one. It's been confirmed. The purifier has been activated. We've been ordered to fortify our current position and wait for orders. With a lull in the fighting, we set up and fortified our position outside the capital building near Suward Square. Things have been relatively quiet around here lately. That'll all change when word spreads of the purifier. Anyone and everyone will do whatever they can to get their hands on some of that water. For life or profit, it makes no difference. Same old killing, just a different ingredient. So Talent company is trying to get their hands on the water. The raiders are disorganized and scattered all over the wasteland. I think the brotherhood can defend pretty well against them, but against organized mercenaries with high tech weaponry. Aside from the enclave, Talent company is really the last force. Being the people of the capital wasteland from getting free, pure water. Before we do anything else, we have got to get rid of Talent company. And to do that, we need to head to their headquarters at Fort Benister. We've seen this place before, but we've never taken a pit stop. It was too well fortified. Too many Talent company Murks. But as we approach this time, we see some brotherhood soldiers in power armor sneaking around outside. Talking with one of them. Talent company has been ambushing our water caravans. I guess they thought we wouldn't figure out who was doing it. As soon as Paladin Jensen gets back from scouting the base, we're going to level the place. Kill every last one of those scumbag Murks. Well, good luck with that. Yeah, whatever. On second thought. Talent company is going to be sorry they messed with the brotherhood. Now what the hell is taking Jensen so long? Why wait for Jensen? Let's go kick some talent ass right now. Guess this is my lucky day. You're on, pal. Alpha Squad, let's move out. And with that, the lone wanderer and Alpha Squad race towards Fort Benister and begin attacking Talent company posted outside. Or we can say, I'll go look around. See if I can find Jensen. Sure, but don't expect us to jump in and save you from those talent boys. We move on our own schedule. Yeah, fine. You just get in my way. So Jensen is in there scouting around. Why hasn't he come out yet? We see a number of talent company guards. Using our Gauss rifle, we can make quick work of them. Heading inside, we can loot the bodies so we don't see much more resistance. Turning to the right, we find one of the talent company guard posts. There's a first aid kit on a shelf, an ammo canister and a sniper rifle on the top of it. But just then we get attacked from the ground. I could die. It's then we notice a staircase leading down to a door. But it's locked with a very hard lock. We'll come back to this in a minute. We see tents and commotion in the center of the ruins moving to the other side of a guard post. We can take out some talent company. And we see a water caravan brahman. So they are taking the water. Heading up top this guard post, we can pick an average locked ammo box and then back on the ground, we can move towards the center of camp. We see two brahman and we can loot the corpses, one of which is a robot brain. There's a bathtub filled with clean pure water. Just like they were keeping some for themselves. In the first tent to the right, we find a couple of foot lockers, a small amount of caps in one. The second tent is empty. The third tent has a few mattresses. But in the fourth tent, we find pallet and jensen. Don't you realize by now you'll get nothing from me? Get damned dirty merk? Wait a minute. Who are you? Hey, help me out of here. These talent apes nabbed me while I was scouting the place. Yeah, I don't think so. Fine, I'll just have to escape on my own. Don't worry, it won't take me long. On second thought? I could probably free myself in a few more minutes, but why don't you save me the trouble and just let me loose? What are you doing here? The brotherhood is getting ready for a little payback. We're tired of talent company ambushing our water caravans. I was scouting their base when I was captured. All part of my plan, of course. Now that I've memorized all their guard positions and patrol routes, I just need to get out of here and report back to the rest of my squad. Come on, help me escape. Okay, you're free. Now what? Now I'm going to go kick some talent company ass. And with that pallid in Jensen, race us off towards a final tent in the ruins of a building. We could let him die or help him out. And just then Alpha Squad charges forward. They race into the tent, pallid in Jensen close behind, and open the sewer entrance to the commanding officer's quarters. We arrive in the sewers and the brotherhood races forward into a fight. Now this is where they almost surely die. We run into a number of obstacles. First, the floor is mined with frag mines. Second, there's a ceiling mounted Mark 7 machine gun turret. And finally, we find a talent company Mark wielding a flame thrower. Now I really wanted to save the lives of these reckless brotherhood guys, because I like him, and also because I wanted to see what happened if they live. That meant reloading save after save, trying again and again to kill the enemies before the brotherhood stumbled into their deaths. So instead of slowly going through this complex, exploring every corner, we're going to race through as fast as we can, trying to stay one step ahead of the brotherhood in order to kill all of the talent company so the brotherhood doesn't die. This took about an hour of loading and reloading saves to memorize every single enemy and choose the appropriate strategy. First, upon entering the sewer, we use vats to take out the machine gun turret and the guy with the flameers. So, I'm looting the mines slowed me down and kept me behind them, so I just hope for the best. So, I'm lucky, and none of them died. Then opening the door at the end of the hallway, we kill a merc who comes up the stairs and a merc with a rocket launcher in a floating pod across the big chamber. Then a merc with an assault rifle that comes to his defense. Then, racing down the stairs, we quickly get rid of a machine gun turret. Then trying to get ahead of this guy, we continue forward and down another flight of stairs and then open a door to the right. This leads to a hallway and a barracks through a door to the right. They quickly kill all mercs in the barracks. Before the brotherhood can get ahead of us, we go back to the hallway, throw a door to the right, and then immediately left down some stairs. We arrive in a large room with catwalks above a flooded chamber filled with mercs. First we take out three. Then we take out a machine gun turret and a final merc. Then quickly we pull out a fat man, race across the catwalk, and open the door to the west. Then sprinting down a hallway we pass a mess hall, go up the stairs, and you see I took my fat man out. That's because we have to quickly kill the boss of this place who's at the top of the stairs in a room to the left. One shot. Machine gun turret. Then we quickly turn around, try to get behind the brotherhood because they get flanked by more talent company who spawned behind them. And back in the boss room, we quickly jump down to the chamber below and kill a ceiling mounted machine gun turret. That's every enemy in this area. The brotherhood all walk out safe. We'll see them again later. Now to actually explore this place. On the ground we found the severed legs of Commander Jabscow. Jabscow was the boss of talent company. And on his body we found a finger Jabscow's key, a unique weapon, Occam's razor, and a unique helmet, the talent company helmet. Occam's razor looks just like any other combat knife, but it deals three more damage. 10 compared to 7. That makes it on par in terms of damage with stab-happy, which I covered in my video on the Bethesda Ruins that you can watch here. However, stab-happy has a critical chance multiplier of times 4 compared to Occam's razor's times 3, and critical damage of 15 compared to Occam's razor's 13. In that regard it's slightly better. But both weapons do 30 DPS compared to a combat knife's 21. The talent combat helmet is a one-of-a-kind item. No other talent company merc wears the helmet. The only novelty about this item is it does look like a unique helmet. However, standard combat helmets are better. This one has a DR-OV4 and an item HP of 40 compared to a combat helmet's DR-OV5 and item HP of 50. That makes it better than a rivet city or 10-pinny guard helmet, but beaten by both a standard combat helmet and the Ranger Battle Helmet, which is the best combat helmet in the game. I covered that when I did my video on Riley's Rangers that you can watch here. Using Japsco's key, we can unlock a box safe at the bottom of this room. Inside we can walk away with a laser pistol, almost 100 bottle caps and some energy cells. There's a first aid kit on a nearby wall, an ammo canister under a table, and a nukukola quantum on a shelf by a footlocker. The footlocker has some electron charge packs and some kems. After looting a final ammunition box at the bottom of a shelf in this room, we can take the stairs up. The mini-nuk made quick work of the Mr. Gutsy and Japsco, leaving not much else in this room to loot. In our way out we see a turret control terminal, didn't have time to hack that, and heading back to the top of the stairs, we find a door to the left, which leads to the Ford Banister bunker, and a door to the north, locked with an average locked terminal. After hacking the terminal or picking the door, we arrive in a small chem closet. We find jet and buff out on the ground, two first aid kits, and two lockers, with some darts inside. After looting three ammo canisters and a couple of boxes, we can head down the stairs to retrace our steps to explore everything we missed. At the bottom of the stairs we can turn left into the mess hall, we find lots of cutlery pots and pans and scrap, boxed food in the refrigerators, and a lunch box on the tables. Heading out of the mess hall, we can follow the hallway into the large room with the floating pods above the water. All we find here are talent company bodies to loot. We can swim in the water, but all we get for our trouble is radiation. Heading out we can climb the stairs, this leads us to the barracks. In the barracks we find a bathroom in the wall to the east, not much in the lockers, but in one of the toilets we find a teddy bear. In the toilet water tank, take in some psycho. We'll just take both of these. Drugs are bad, okay. Back onto the barracks we find a whole bunch of ammunition boxes on a shelf, as well as some railway spikes. Next to this are two gun cabinets, with a laser pistol and rifle. Turning around we find another gun cabinet, with another laser rifle, and some ammunition in the lockers. Turning west we see the bunks. There's a foot locker, near one with electron charge packs inside, and some psycho and jet on the tables. Looks like these talent company aren't too different from writers after all. Moving to the hallway, instead of going west back the way we came, we'll head north up the stairs. We pass right by this, in our haste. At the top we find a split, left or right, after looting a toolbox on a first aid kit, we get attacked by a murk. He must have been a doctor, the room he came from has a bunch of medical equipment. We find stretchers and trolleyes, and a wastelander corpse on one stretcher, God knows what he was doing to it. We find chems on a table next to a chemistry set, and beneath it we find an easy locked floor safe, with bottle caps and a stealth boy inside. We find another stretcher to the east with another corpse lying on it, this of a competing mercenary. Looks like they don't like the idea of competition, heading out of the clinic, we can cross the hall to a generator room, but it's empty. So heading back down the stairs, we can finally retrace our steps, back to the series of floating pods. We can turn right to take the stairs down to the bottom, but we don't find anything here. Heading back up, we can look up, and we see that this was a pre-war missile silo, but the missile is gone. Looks like pre-war America managed to shoot it before the bomb's dropped. And the pod floating above, we find a first aid box on a shelf next to a toolbox, and after looting a telling company corpse, we can turn right to loot an ammo canister, add some frag mines on a windowsill before leaving the pod. Now here, if we look over the side, we see something lying on top of the floating pod beneath. Jumping down, we find a sandbag barricade, next to a ham radio, and a copy of Nikola Tesla and you, with an ammo canister. Back to the staircase, we can take it up to the final floating pod, and turn left to return to the sewers. Here we can loot the final corpses, and any frag mines that we missed. This leads us back to the sewer grate where we entered. And it leaves us with one path forward, retracing our steps back all the way towards the room where we killed Jabsco. We can open the door to the west to enter the Fort Bannister bunker. On the other side, we see an open door to the left, and a closed door to the right. Stepping forward? Uh oh, okay. Oh, it was a pressure plate, connected to a shotgun, and there's another trap to the left. Well, I'd figured one, but I'm not going to do the same with the other. We can disarm the rigged shotgun, and then disarm the pressure plate. Now we can go left or right. Let's go through the door the talent company came through first. We arrive in a small room, with a divider in the middle of it. There's a gun cabinet to the right, with an assault rifle and ammunition inside, and on the eastern side of the divider is an empty locker. So continuing north up the stairs. And then right next to him is a ceiling mounted turret. In the nook beneath the turret, we find a number of empty containers. There's a stack of bottle caps in one of the lockers, and then moving beyond this to the west, we find another nook with scrap and even more empty containers. But then another murk. The sea-est aircase to the south, and a door behind us. Going through the door first, we find a bathroom. Nothing much in here, but a brax-so cleaner on a sink. Gotta keep those hands clean. So turning around we can go north. We see a turret control terminal that we could have activated, but as the turret is dead, we'll continue up the stairs into the east. We arrive in a large room filled with machinery, to the right we see a staircase going up. But if we move east, we find another door on the other side of the machinery. This leads to a hallway and round in the corner. There you are. Ah! I want this one! One more. Immediately to the left we find another locker room, with 10mm rounds and darts in the lockers, then back out into the hallway, we can fall it until it turns north to a closed door. Ah-ha! And Fort Brannister does not disappoint, these talon marks are everywhere. Just like this was a bit of a makeshift workshop, but all the containers are empty. We do find some sensor modules in one box, and some railway spikes on a shelf. Here we can go through a western door, and down some stairs. This rounds a corner through an open door, and we arrive back at the pressure plate room, the room where we entered. So we've done a big loop. We now need to retrace our steps, kill one more merc. Not sure where he was hiding, we already explored everything. Back to the room with all the machinery. Now we can head up the... Oh? Hello? Looks like we've got a trip wire. I can't see. I can't target it. How do I snip this thing? Nudge just a bit closer. Uh-oh. Oh, there it is. Oh! Ha-ha-ha-ha! Okay, it didn't even fall to the ground. It rolled along the girder, but the explosion detonated a bunch of fragments on the stairs. Well with the trap detonated, we can head up the steps, and use the key we got on Jebsco's body to open a door to the wasteland. This leads us to that locked door and staircase that we saw near to the guard tower when we first arrived, and it's night. Heading towards the middle of camp, we find our saved brotherhood of steel. Hey, it's good to see them all alive and well. But where's Jensen? Moving north? Oh, there he is. Oh wait! He's on! He's on! He's on! He's on! He's on! He's on! You got attacked by some talent company dogs. But we saved him. Now, that's what I call a good day's work. A good day's work indeed. Moving north down the hill, we see the exit to the missile silo and the shell of this ruined building. So this building must have been destroyed when they launched a nuke. Oh, there weren't any workers in here at that time. Moving to the west, we find another door. This is locked with a very easy lock. This leads to Fort Penister Main. Inside we get attacked from the left. They just kept coming. Well, now they're dead. The hall continues west and lets out into a large vaulted room. Here we can kill more mercs. On this level, we find a bathroom to the right, but it's empty. Moving west, we see some tracks. At a turret. Next to the tracks is a staircase leading down to a storage level. Wow, this is a tall area. But most of these boxes are just for show. The most I found was some 10mm ammo and one and darts in another. Back up to the tracks level, we can follow the tracks. Finally to a storage shelf where we find a lunch box and passing a door we see a dumpster covered in human skeletons. Were these mercs that misbehaved? Or more wastelanders they captured for their nefarious purposes? Here we find a very easy lock door back outside of the capital wasteland. On the other side we see that we're outside at still night and we're on the southwestern side of the camp. Taking a look at our local map, there's where we went in and here's where we came out. We still have the stairs to explore, so back inside we can hop on down to the level where we killed the merc when we first arrived in this room and take the staircase up. Eventually we reach a floating pod, creeping our way through it, we exit into a hallway. Ah! We see some stairs to the west and a room to the east. Starting east first, we arrive in a bit of a workshop, we see terminals against the wall but they're all busted, moving east we find darts in a box, and next to this a wall safe, locked with an average lock inside we find two stonth boys in a small amount of caps. There's a lot of scrap against the northern wall and then on the northwestern wall is another wall safe. This one locked with an average lock inside we find a more respectable stack of bottle caps. We see a bunch of computer terminals sitting around and some sort of rubbish pile in the middle but we can't access it. Looks like it's a pit though, I wonder if we can find a way down. So turning around, we can head back to the hallway and take this staircase down. And at the end of the hallway we find an average lock to door and this leads to the talent company armory. We find a fat man and a mini-nuke, a big book, a science, an ammo box, a number of other small boxes and tool boxes and another ammo box at the top of the shelf. Looks like there's a fusion generator in here but it doesn't appear to be working and that's it for the Fort Branister main building. Heading back outside we see the dawn is breaking, good to see Fort Branister in brotherhood hands. Moving east however, we pass by a heavily-nuked area and we see an enclave camp. Moving forward we find even more enclave in a crater. After killing the enclave we can turn around and loot the enclave chests. At this little camp we walk away with missiles and a whole bunch of kems and turning around we find a terminal near to a chair with an enclave officer we killed. Enclaved field research, terminal crater camp locked with an average lock. Field operations on clave. God bless America. Read first. Woo, bit of a glitch here. It should read, Department of the Army Research and Development Field Operations sector 76Z. Welcome. You have been chosen by our great president to explore and collect samples at the crater located in sector 762. The provided armament stationed with you have proven reliable during early testing. However, should any problems arise you are recommended to power down the defense grid using this terminal. Thank you for your participation. In the next one request main base connection function disabled. And finally we can power down the defense grid. But function is disabled. It's tempting to think that these options are disabled because we destroyed Ravenrock but we find them disabled even if we came upon this research terminal before destroying Ravenrock. So I have no explanation. After looting the enclave we can inspect this crater. We see that next to the impact crater are deep long channels. Only where the missiles or bombs that made this crater first hit earth and continued traveling before detonating at the crater center. In the middle of the crater we see a tipped over military truck and lying on the ground beneath it are alien power cells. So the pre-war American government must have known about the Zetans before the bombs dropped if they were transporting alien power cells. Perhaps they were transporting some other greater alien technology that the Chinese knew about which is why they tried to destroy it. Or it could be that finding the truck here is incidental. After all, this crater is right next to Fort Bannister which as we just discovered was a pre-war American nuclear missile silo. Perhaps the Chinese targeted it for that reason and that reason alone. In the rubble we find an easy locked box safe with caps and money inside and the nearby buildings have collapsed into the crater. We see concrete and rebar rubble cascading down the sides of the crater. We find a bit of furniture in one desk we find a nukikola and then we see a bunch of barrels of nuclear waste. I'm thinking these must have been deposited in the crater after the bombs dropped otherwise they would have been vaporized in the explosion. Then again I suppose the same thing can be said for the truck. But who would have launched a truck filled with alien power cells into the middle of this crater? At any rate we have fully explored Fort Bannister and cut off the head of Talon Company. I'm sure we'll still see them in the Wasteland but perhaps now they'll stop wailing Aqua Pura Kera Vans. With Kera Vans finally made safe in the Wasteland we can at last make our way to the Rockland Car Tunnel to meet up with Paladin Tristan. Time to see exactly what the brotherhood has in store for us. We'll cover that in my next episode. I publish many videos each and every week on my channel so if you don't want to miss it be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you miss out on YouTube notifications consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. No dice. Celebrate your luck or lack thereof with this brand new design that comes on shirts on a wider array of sizes. You can find the design on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So we've interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.