. In our last episode, we helped the institute rescue a bunch of escaped synths at Bunker Hill. While there we had to fight off the railroad and the brotherhood of steel, depending on the choices we made in our game, up until that point. Afterwards, Father Metis on the rooftop of the ruins of the Commonwealth Institute of Technology, and if pleased with our performance at Bunker Hill, he invites us to attend a direct-trade meeting inside the institute. Back at the institute, we find the conference room on the top floor of the residential stack where Father lives, and it looks like the meeting is just about to start. Good, we're all here. I think it's time we begin. Sir, excuse me, but what exactly is he doing here? I will address that issue, but there are other subjects that require our attention first. The level of unrest in the Commonwealth continues to rise as we're all aware. The Oren Report. All institute facilities remain completely secure with the exception of one notable breach. Otherwise, internally things are as tight as they've ever been. Dr. Ayo has been keeping an eye on things topside. Yes. Watchers show no additional threats beyond those previously identified. Boston International Airport remains occupied with Brotherhood Presidents noted at several other points throughout the Commonwealth. Intelligence suggests that this rail road continues to operate and is becoming more ambitious. SRB agents are monitoring all known situations, sir. Very good, thank you. It's clear that our safety needs to be the primary concern going forward. To that end, where are we on Phase 3? Sir, are you sure this is the time to be discussing it? Given, well, considering all parties present? Yes, that's true. Have you heard anything about Phase 3? What's Phase 3? It's very important to us. I don't think so. It's alright. I wouldn't expect you to have. The project has been classified from the beginning. I have no idea what that is. Oh, admit I'm relieved. It's intended to be something of a classified project which I'm sure means everyone already knows about it. Of course, really. No, there's no shame in being out of the loop as it were. The project has been classified for quite a long time. Power is, as I'm sure you've seen above ground, a very valuable commodity. I'm not talking about some abstract concept of control. I mean real, tangible power. The kind that keeps the lights on, with every advanced the institute makes. Our need for raw power increases, many compromises and sacrifices have been made over the years to allow progress to continue. What kind of compromises? We have at times had to rely on drawing power from above ground installations. It risks personnel and equipment, but no longer. Right. So, hard times down here. I would never disagree that life in the institute is better than above ground. We have done much to ensure it. Now we take things even further. Compromises for the week. That is one perspective, yes. But I think we can agree that going forward, no one can consider us weak. In this world, I'm sure compromise is necessary. Quite right. For far too long we've been dependent on others. On our surroundings that time is over. Phase 3 is simply... The activation of a nuclear reactor that can provide enough power to the institute now? And forever. It will ensure not just our survival, but our prosperity. Can you tell me more about this reactor? Certainly. It was originally built for the Commonwealth Institute of Technology before the war. But was only for testing. Over the years we've advanced the technology, made a great many improvements, and are finally nearly ready to activate it. I'm not sure what this means. You'll see in time. I promise you that. Nuclear power? That's it is after waiting to happen. Not in our hands. I assure you this is the answer. This is the future. Sounds like an important step. That's... Well, that's an understanding. The reactor is close to ready. But recent tests have determined we have a few tasks ahead of us. Thus we come to Phase 3 and to how you will help. Sir. Yes, Dr. Heia. Previously we would rely on Kellogg for above ground operations yet. Well, he is gone. While I'm not overly fond of putting my own father in harm's way, he has proven more than capable of handling himself. Yes, but... This is not a matter for debate. Now, there is one more subject that requires discussion. I don't know that this is the time. Dr. Holdren, it is time. Please. As I'm sure several of you are already aware, I have been under Dr. Volker's care for some time. I'm sorry, this is difficult for me. Our best efforts have failed. The experimental treatment we could devise has been unsuccessful. I'm... I'm sorry to say I'm dying. Why is this serious? Everyone, please, I'm sorry. This is not how I wanted to tell you, but we're running out of time. I hope you're not too overwhelmed. You're dying? I'm afraid so. A very aggressive form of cancer. Believe me, when I say we've done everything we can. Why would you joke about this? It isn't funny. Where at a joke I'd agree it's in poor form. But I'm afraid it's not. This can't be happening. I... I only just found you. I've had the same thoughts more than a few times. But we cannot let this stop us. Our work must continue. There must be something we can do to help you. The only thing that matters now is continuing the Institute's work. It will be alright. I assure you, we can talk more later. Right now, the future of the Institute is at stake. The Institute cannot survive without leadership. The directorate must continue to govern with the best interest of all in mind. To that end, I am naming my father as my successor. Oh boy. You can't be serious. Really? I'm in a poor choice. How can you possibly justify this? He isn't one of us. He isn't even a scientist. Ignoring your borderline in subordinate tone, I will simply say this. The Institute has enough scientists. What it needs is a leaker. I believe my father has already proven himself more than capable in that regard. This will conclude this meeting. Thank you. Roshan is dying of cancer. But this explains that terminal entry. We saw on Dean Volker's terminal. We saw that Dean Volker had seen symptoms of dizziness, shortness of breath in the director. This entry wasn't dated. It could have been a director before Sean. But now we know that it was Sean. And the notes, test results revealed, redacted, meant cancer. Volker discovered that father had cancer and they can't cure it. And it explains the medical bed we found in father's room with the oxygen tanks on wheels. At night, in the privacy of his room, he is attended to by doctors. He breathes supported by oxygen. He's gonna die. We just found Sean and he's gonna die. How much longer does he have? I had no idea. I know this is... Well, it's a lot to take in at once. I'm sorry, father. I hope it wasn't too presumptuous of me to put you in charge without even asking first. What would it mean to be in charge? Most divisions of the institute are fairly autonomous, perfectly capable of functioning without intervention. Where those divisions interact, however. Problems can arise. You'd lead the directorate in setting policy, resolving disputes and the like. I don't know if I'm right for this. Will I clearly have faith in you? Sean. I don't want to run this place. Are you so sure? You seem to have a natural talent for leading by example. Getting things done. This will suit you. And I think we can both agree the institute will need the guidance. I can do the job. Of course you can. That's why I made the decision. There's no question that some of the directorate and the institute at large will need reassurances about your appointment. That's why I'd like you to take charge of this latest operation. Dr. Phil Moore can fill you in on the details. There are hard decisions ahead for all of us. But for you, especially. I know that you'll do the right thing. And that we complete the quest, mankind redefined. We start the quest, mass fusion. Speak with Ali Phil Moore. And if we had not completed it yet, we fail the quest, trade craft. Which means that at this point in the game, if we aren't allied with the railroad, we never can be. We are not killed on sight with them, yet, but we can no longer join their faction. Now we know why Father practically laughed at us if we said that there had better be a reward after completing Bunker Hill. There better be something in this for me. I assure you, this operation will have very significant results in your favor. His reward was to make us director of the institute. Us, a vaultweller, a 20-something year old military grunt. Well, 220-something year old if we're actually counting the years. But in terms of Momod's conscious, Nate is a young adult. Certainly younger than any of the other members of the directorate. And every single person at that directorate meeting was second-guessing Father after everything he said. What exactly is he doing here? Sir, are you sure this is the time to be discussing it? I don't know that this is the time. Oh boy. You can't be serious. Really? Seems a poor choice. Nobody felt that Nate should have been there. No one thinks that Nate should become the next director. Only Father does. And he's getting his way. His reprimand of Justin Io was all we needed to hear. Yes, but this is not a matter for debate. The directorate is not a voting council. The top minds of the institute aren't getting together to make decisions as a whole, as a body. No, the institute is a scientific autocracy led by one person, and that person has absolute control. If you disagree with the director, you are being insubordinate. If you make decisions in your own department that defy the will of the director like Virgil Dead, you are considered a traitor. I know what I'm about to do when we see this as a trail. Trees in Hill probably call it. I wonder how long the institute has been this autocratic. Was it always like this? Did members of the directorate have more power, greater freedoms at different times in the institute's past? Could this be new? Could Sean be the first practical dictator for the institute, or were the other directors just as dictatorial as he? But perhaps this can help explain why every single person at the council meeting disagreed with appointing Nate as the director. The director wields so much power over policy changes, over the direction of different departments, over the life and death of individual members of the institute. And father makes Nate the next director. I can understand why everyone would feel so uncomfortable about this. But it makes you wonder why? Sean is clearly a believer in the institute. There is nothing in his mind, in his life, that he values more than the institute. He wants the institute to succeed, he wants the institute to have the best. Why would he make Nate the next director? He says that it's because the institute needs a leader, not a scientist, but a leader. The institute has enough scientists. What it needs is a leader. And that may be true, but why this leader? Why Nate? Someone who's been a part of the institute for a couple of weeks may be a month at this point. I think the cancer can explain some of father's rather irrational choices as of late. Here father is, 60 years old, raised in the institute, director of the institute for a good long time now. He is overseeing some of the institute's greatest successes, the evolution of the synth program, the advent of the Gen 3 synth. He could have released his father from Vault 111 at any time once he became aware of them, but he chose to release Nate after he learned that he was dying of cancer. He was 60 years old, surely he had 20, 30, 40 more years ahead of him, but then in the blink of an eye, he had less than a year to live. And what was important to him? The institute, surely, but that was all going well. What was important to him on a more personal level? The one thing that sort of haunted him his entire life. The one question he never had answered, the one experiment he never got to observe. For many years I never questioned who my parents were. I accepted my situation. And that was that. With old age comes regret. And asking what if, more often, I had no idea what kind of man you were you see. With the Commonwealth corrupt you. As it has everything else. Would you even survive, perhaps most curious to me? Would you, after all this time, attempt to find me? Who were my parents? Were they like? Were they like me? Were they as tenacious and ambitious as me? Would they survive in this wasteland? In my last episode, I hinted that perhaps Sean so recklessly released Nate from Vault 111 because he suffered from sociopathic. But maybe instead he released Nate from Vault 111 out of desperation. He was running out of time. He had to release Nate right at that moment because he didn't know how much longer he had to live and he needed these questions answered before he died. He waited as long as he could. And he couldn't wait any longer. The big question though, after all of this is why would Sean make Nate director of the Institute? I can't think of any rational reason for him to do so. Other than nepotism, nepotism which you'd think Sean would be wise enough to realize is bad for the longevity of the Institute. And if Nate has answered every question correctly, has shown every possible character attribute that Father admires, it simply hasn't been enough time. Sean became director after decades and decades of research experimentation, demonstrating his loyalty. He earned it. He was proud of it and he wasn't afraid to tell us. I was the most qualified for the position. Obviously. I've lived my life within these walls. Dedicated to science like every other member of the Institute, my hard work has paid off. I spent decades working to reach this point. It's a responsibility I take very seriously. He finally became the director after all of those years and yet he's willing to give directorship to someone who's been here for just a couple of weeks. This doesn't sound plausible to me. And so here come the conspiracy theories. Could it be that maybe Sean has been faking at this entire time? Maybe after discovering that he had cancer, he re-evaluated his life. Suddenly realizing that the Institute wasn't quite as important as he thought. Perhaps he held on to bitterness and anger and not only Kellogg, but the Institute as a whole for what happened to his mother. And maybe he thought that the best slice of irony would be to put his father in charge of the very Institute that murdered his mother. I don't know if I buy that theory because Sean really does seem to be genuine when he talks about how important the Institute is, how it's mankind's best hope. But it would explain why Sean would put his father, a man who's only been here a couple of weeks in charge of the entire Institute. There were a couple of things in the directorate meeting that were really interesting. Ali Fillmore mentioned that the Institute had been breached. All Institute facilities remain completely secure with the exception of one notable breach. This could be in reference to all of the escaped synths. Or maybe it was in reference to Virgil. After all he fought his way out of here somehow, even though the relay is the only way in and out, and it's this conversation that gives a name to the Institute's synth birds. The synth birds are alluded to in bioscience terminals. We see what their eyes see on monitors inside the SRB, and here we get their nails, the watchers. Watchers show no additional threats beyond those previously identified. And at last we learned what this mysterious Phase 3 was. It's the creation of a nuclear reactor. Phase 3 is simply the activation of a nuclear reactor that can provide enough power to the Institute now and forever. We've been hearing about Phase 3 all over the Institute in terminals and conversations in overheard conversations. When are you going to tell me about this mysterious Phase 3? No, I can't talk about that. But the only thing that clued us into the fact that it might be a nuclear reactor was the terminal in advanced systems. Here medicinely had an entire document dedicated to Phase 3. It didn't tell us what it was, but it told us what was involved. It needed a housing. Nuclear reactor definitely needs a housing. It had exhaust couplings and a magnetic confinement field. But Nate's right, when he expresses concern over having a giant nuclear reactor underground inside the Institute where so many scientists and civilians live sleep work eat and play. Nuclear power? That's a disaster waiting to happen. Not in all hands. Yeah, but what happens if it gets in someone else's hands? Sean? I mean sure the Institute has been safe underground for over 200 years, but Nate just infiltrated it. What if somebody else infiltrates the Institute and does something to your reactor? The Prime Sean didn't think about that, but maybe he's got a contingency plan in place. At any rate, Sean said that he wants us to take charge of this latest operation. It has something to do with the nuclear reactor, and to find out more, we need to talk with Ali Philmore. But after completing this quest, a slew of new opportunities open up to us in the Institute. Understandably, we're a father's successor. Everyone's gonna want to get on Nate's good side. So before going to Ali Philmore, we'll check in with the other scientists here in the Institute. See what other tasks they have for us. I update this series with a brand new episode every single week, so if you don't want to miss the next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already, but you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxford. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wider ray of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you want to support me in another way, consider sending me a super thanks on this video. The super thanks button is directly underneath this video. Super thanks is a great way to support this series directly. I see each and every one of them, and I deeply appreciate them. You can always support me on Patreon, or become a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comment sections of my videos, and access to ox emojis that they can use in my video comments, and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon. With the next episode in the full story, I'll fall out for.