In our last episode we explored the tanker at the San Francisco Wharf. We learned that it was called the PMV Valdez. And we learned that the enclave main base is actually a pre-war Poseidon oil rig. The PMV Valdez is the only vehicle that can approach the oil rig without being fired upon by the enclave. We used the key fob that we got at Navarro to install the NavComp chip that we got at Vault 13, but now we just need to get some fuel for the tanker. Low-chow at the flying dragonate said that the she might have some tanker fuel. Maybe we can work with the nearby hydrologists to steal the tanker fuel from the she. To find the hydrologists, we passed through the north-eastern exit grid from downtown San Francisco. We arrived on the Golden Gate Bridge. And lying on the bridge is a huge vehicle. It appears to be some sort of space shuttle. Standing next to it is a man in a lab coat. Hey, raw meat, he says. Who are you? What are you doing here? Who are you, we can ask? And what are you doing here? And he says, I'm Harry. I'm the chief rocket technician. Well, I'm Oxhorn, we can say, and I'm just looking around. You're not one of the brethren, he says. And you're therefore not authorized to be here. Unless you're planning on joining us, which you may do by expressing your interest to AHS7, who's at the guard post. Now we either get downstairs or get out of here. We see a spiral staircase next to the exit grid, but before going down, we can talk with the other man standing next to this shuttle. How can I help you, he says. Who are you, we can ask? And he says, I'm Dave Handy. I'm down from Canada. What brought you down here, we can ask? Promise not to laugh, he says. Okay, we can say. And he says, the hub recruiter, Vicki Goldman. I saw one of her movies up in Canada, and I just knew that she'd fall in love with me. It hasn't happened yet, but I'm working on it. Had apparently the chosen one is familiar with the name Vicki Goldman, because we find an option for him to say, Ha ha, what a schlep you are. She's a porn star, buddy. She doesn't watch you. Well, yeah, he says. But it's worth it in case something happens. He has that same response to all of our options there. So what do you do here, we can ask? I show these guys how to move their data, and I answer stupid questions all day long. What sort of stupid questions we can ask? And he says, oh, like, does my terminal have 3D card support? Stuff like that. And I'm assuming the answer is no since all of the terminals and terminal games we have access to in the wasteland are too dimensional. Well, we can say you want me to talk Vicki up for you? Oh no, no, he says. I'd be too embarrassed. Fine, fine, we can say. Hey, Dave, would you be able to hack into the she database we can ask? And he says I should be able to. But only if you have a specific task in mind. Well, you could divert fuel into the Poseidon tanker we can ask. And he says I could do that, but I need a good reason to do it. And I just don't have that. Sorry. So it looks like Dave handy here can help us, but we need to give him a good reason to do so first. Nearby we find two homologous guards. Go on about your business, they say. Consume, sleep. The star father cares for you. That's why he gave you us. We can take another look at this rocket. Good grief. It's huge. It couldn't have been made by the habalagists. It must have been a pre-war rocket. So this is what America was using to explore the stars. It must have been a shuttle like this that brought America to the moon. I'm curious about the logistics of how the habalagists got this year. San Francisco isn't really well known for its thriving space exploration industry. Even modern space exploration companies on the west coast like SpaceX still launch from the East Coast. And we know from the events of Broken Steel that the mobile base crawler, which was originally a space shuttle orbiter mobile platform before the war, was on the East Coast. Pre-war America probably used this thing for military purposes before the war, but how the habalagists got this to the Golden Gate Bridge without fuel remains a mystery. The Golden Gate Bridge is destroyed from here on out, so to continue we need to head down the spiral staircase near the exit grid. We arrive in the bowels of a pre-war bridge maintenance complex, which now serves as the habalagists headquarters. The path allowing access to the facility is blocked off of the force field, and it's surrounded by two guards. Don't bother those who try to focus. We have your best interest at heart. Near to the spiral staircase we see a man in a gray robe. You, stature business he says, I'd like to look around we can ask, and he says this is not a place that is open for random tours. Good day, or we can say who are you? And he says I am AHS7, the second in command of this facility. Before you ask, AHS stands for Aligned Hubseeker, which means that I have cleared seven levels of neurodines from my spirit. This means that I am more enlightened and closer to the hub of the great wheel than you, and this means that you will tell me what you want here. Now, we can say I'm interested in potentially joining your group, and AHS7 says excellent, go in, go in, speak to Juan Cruz and Vicki Goldman. They're celebrities, you know, but they'll talk to you. We can say, ooh celebrities, or we can say who are they? And he says they're stars from New Reno. They heard the truth behind our gospel and came to cleanse their neurodines. Where do I find them we can ask? And he says you can find them in the prayer room, showing all our new recruits and the raw meat, just how rewarding it is to be a hebalogist. Well, let me add them we can say, alternatively, if we have the letter with us that we got from the self-proclaimed enlightened one at the church in NCR, we can tell AHS7 here that we have a letter for AHS9 from the enlightened one in NCR. And he says very well, be quick though, he is a busy, busy man. Either way, he opens the force fields and allows us to explore further. There are rooms to the left and right of the spiral staircase, they have computers and desks inside, but everything's inaccessible and empty. Going through the force fields immediately to the right, we find a storage room with a guard inside. Your presence is welcome. Over there, he says, the boxes in here are empty and we can't interact with the terminal. So heading back out to the hallway, we see that we can go one of two ways. North-West, down a long hallway or northeast, through a deactivated barrier. Going down the hallway ends at a barracks. We find three bunk beds, a bunch of foot lockers and lockers. The foot lockers are all empty, but the lockers have small goods. The first one has some mute fruit. The second one, oddly enough, has two lit flares. And this is a game glitch. We find these flares lit in every game and they never go out. They're the only flares that act like this in the game. More mute fruit and a combat knife in here, and then the final locker even more mute fruit. But this room is a dead end, so heading back down the hallway, we can move northeast. Only to arrive in yet another hallway, with another long pathway going northwest, and a hallway moving northeast, with lots of other arteries. We'll start by going northeast. Passing a door to the left for now, we'll take the hallway furthest to the east. This leads us to our room to the southeast, wherein we find two hydrologist guards and a number of tables. Both of the guards say, consume, and we can't interact with any of the tables. Passing through a series of doorways to the west, we arrive in what must be an office space, we find eight office desks. And four work tables, all of which are empty. This room connects back to the hallway we came from, through a door to the southwest, so this just does a small loop. To continue, we'll head back to this office space and take the doorway to the north. This leads us to a computer room, and inside, we find a scientist. Yeah, he says, what do you want? Who are you, we can ask? And he says, I'm Crockett. I'm a scientist and fix it guy. Can I get back to it? Crockett, we remember that name. Low-chall from the flying dragonate told us that he is a good guy to visit if we want some upgraded gear. Well, what do you do here, Crockett? And he says, I develop new technology, and I get my share of Coltis' tale. If you catch my meaning, uh, no. What do you mean, we can ask? And he says, these guys don't know real science. I help them justify their extravagance and exchange for some downtime with the ladies and a hefty salary. Well, what new tech have you developed, we can ask? And he says, let's see. I built a nuclear reactor for the spaceship. I created the hardening process for power armor, and I fixed things that are broken. So he can harden power armor. Since we're not a member of the Habologists at the moment, he doesn't offer us his services. Looks like we'll have to come back to Crockett here if we ever decide to join the Habologists. We see a computer man frame in this room, but we can't access it using any of the terminals nearby. So to continue, we'll pass through the northern door. This leads us to a small empty room with some sleeping bags on the ground. We find a door to the north and a door to the west. The western door brings us into a long-snaking hallway. If we follow it north, it rounds a corner, gives us another door to the north, and ends down a hallway with a door to the south. Moving south, we arrive in a cafeteria. There's a bathroom here, an empty kitchen to the northwest, and a nookokula machine inside that we can use to buy a nookokula. This is the room we could have accessed had we opened the door before taking the hallway south, and we see that the hallway northwest just wraps around to this very point. So to continue, we'll open the door to the north. This brings us to the Habologist Church. Before moving in to listen to a sermon, we can explore through a doorway to the west. This brings us to another barracks. Filled with beds, and we find a ton of foot lockers. These actually have things in them. It's nothing terribly interesting, but we'll go through it. Here's everything we find if we choose to loot every locker. A flare, a flower, mute fruit, and a rock, more mute fruit, even more mute fruit, another flower, more mute fruit, another flower, three more mute fruit, two more rocks, another rock, a flare, a flare in two more mute fruit, another flower, some money in two pieces of mute fruit, a flower in two rocks, another piece of mute fruit, a flare, some money in a rock, another rock, a crowbar, and two more rocks, a flare in another flower, a mute fruit in another flower, another flower, a flower, and more mute fruit, mute fruit, a flower in a rock, and another flower. This is aologist really like their flowers and rocks. We find a room to the north, which I think must be private prayer cubicles. There's a bookshelf in this room where we find two flares in the tool, and near to this, it's a small theater with a large screen that reads, pray. That's it for the barracks, so to continue, we'll head back to the church. If we try to talk to the habalogists, they say things like, don't listen to what scientists tell you. I'm waiting to hear AHS9 speak again. Only the hub and AHS9 have the answer. Praise the hub. I hope my neurodines are all right. I'm still learning the lingo to tell the truth. Standing on the stage on the other side of the podium is a barrel-chested man, and a woman who looks like she stepped right out of the cat's paw in New Reno. This must be Juan and Vicki, and as we approach, they begin their sermon. Greetings, new recruits. I'm Vicki Goldman, and I'm Juan Cruz. We're celebrities as you already know. We think habalogy is the way to go. We know habalogy is the way to go. I can fry bugs with my brain powers. I look good in tinfoil hats. Maybe if you work hard at optimizing yourself, you can associate with us. We'd certainly like that. Yes, we're always looking for friends, as long as they're willing to optimize themselves, and are as high-ranking as we are. We're AHS5. You can be AHS5 too someday. If you donate lots of money, you can be AHS5 even faster. But don't think we only want you for the money. Oh no, we want to help you. And that's what habalogy is all about. With that, the two celebrities leave the stage and stand to the side. If we try to talk with them, they chat to us as a couple. Hi, I'm Juan Cruz, and I'm Vicki Goldman, We're celebrities, and we endorse habalogy. Please note that any similarities between us and other people or institutions living or dead is entirely coincidental. Similarities we can ask, what do you mean? Yes, some might think we resemble certain people, but the truth is it's entirely coincidental. What they're referring to here is that these characters are references to Tom Cruz and Nicole Kidman. Juan Cruz, Tom Cruz, Vicki Goldman, Nicki Kidman. In the 90s, Tom Cruz and Nicole Kidman were married. They did a couple of movies together, but more importantly, they were outspoken Scientologists. Well, at least Tom Cruz was, is. And as you've probably figured out by now, the entire religion of habalogy is one big reference to Scientology. After Nicole Kidman and Tom Cruz got divorced, Nicole Kidman went back to her faith of Catholicism, but as we all know, Tom Cruz remained a staunch Scientologist. One of their, um, prophets, so to speak. What makes you celebrity, as we can ask? Why we were in the movie business in New Reno, we made hundreds of films, many of them classics like Top Bun, Frisky Business, and Days of Rubber. That's what makes us celebrities. Oh, God. This is, of course, a reference to famous Tom Cruz movies, Top Gun, Risky Business, and Days of Thunder. If the chosen one wants to be incredibly insulting, he can insinuate that he's never seen any of their films by saying, Oh, well, it's nice to finally put faces to the names. Vicki Goldman responds with a blank icy look, but Juan Cruz says, Thank you. Shouldn't I make my own choices, rather than let celebrities guide me, we can ask? That's very forward thinking of you. Very enlightened. We offer our opinions to people, and if our celebrity can attract more believers, we're anxious to use it. Or we can say, Who cares if you endorse it? Shouldn't I make my own choices? And Vicki says, Oh, yes, you should definitely make your own choices. And with the Hobbes latest book, you can learn how to make the right choice. His latest book, we can ask, but isn't he dead? And their response here is actually a glitch. This dialogue tree puts a response from another question in place of this one. They should respond by Juan saying, Dead? Perhaps. We like to think he aligned all his neurodines and went to join the star father. And then Vicki says, We have extensive use of his jotted notes and barely begun manuscripts to spread the word in the hub. And then Juan says, For example, We found a scrap that said, Two dozen eggs, Slash milk, Slash TP. Obviously, this is significant. It needs to be heard. Hubble was simply crafting a shopping list when he scribbled down. Two dozen eggs milk in TP. But these descendants of his instead believe that it holds some divine significance. Or instead of asking about his book, we can say, Make the right choice? Sure. But what about free will? Oh, of course you have your free will. You have the choice to allow your neurodines to be filled with the filth of the world. You have the choice to live a joyless, meaningless existence in the rat race. Or you can come to a greater understanding of life through the great wheel. Neurodines, we can ask, What are they? Neurodines are the essence of souls destroyed in the Great War, polluting your spiritual essence and guiding you astray. If you want to know more about our teachings, you'll have to join our church. But the chosen one can say, Look, I heard this was science fiction but I didn't know how much. The hub must have been quite a crackpot. You dare call the hub, praise his vision, a crackpot? Here, in a stronghold devoted to his study, Get out of here. If you talk to anyone on the way out, you will be attacked in Fidel. Good riddance. We can attack immediately by saying, Maybe I'd better jump on them. I always hated your movies anyway. Let's see you do a death scene. If we leave and talk to them again, One crew says, You made a life-altering decision. And Vicki Goldman says, And sadly, it was the wrong one. Cars, cars! And the hobologists attack. Instead of joining, we can say, Hmm, I think I'll stick with the rat race. That's your prerogative. And I hope you'll understand that you can't be allowed to wander our base. So you had better leave. The guards will probably shoot you if you stick around. Gee, thanks, we can say. Invite me in to recruit me and shoot me if I don't sign up. Nice gig. This is your last chance to change your mind. We'd hate to see anything bad happen to you. Fine, we can say. How do I join? Well, it's very simple, says one. We just give you this informational holodisc. You sit through a short movie, and then you go talk to AHS7. Easy, isn't it? With that, the screen goes black, and we presumably watch the movie that was flickering on that screen in the theater that we found. When we arrived back, that wasn't so bad, was it? Now, just go talk to AHS7, and we'll become rats in homology. I'm so excited. Getting new recruits makes me horny. Oh, honey. Oh, baby. I'll just come back later, says the chosen one. porn stars from Reno Indeed. So now that we've watched the HB on the TV, we need to talk with AHS7 to become a HB. But before we do, we see a hallway to the north on the other side of the podium. This wraps around a corner, and we pass by a guard in front of a large room. Inside, we find AHS9. You are in the presence of AHS9, the great and terrible. What is it you desire of him? We find a number of options here. We can say, Oh, AHS9, I come bearing a letter from your agent in NCR. I bow to your glory. Ah, he says, a letter from my field agent. Pity, she calls herself the enlightened one. It shows that she truly is not enlightened, but you have my gratitude. Or we can say, the enlightened one in NCR wanted me to deliver a letter. She said something about to reward, and he says, a letter from the enlightened one, is that what she's calling herself now? Bah, he takes the letter from us, and she promised a reward. You have a reward, my gratitude. Good day. We can say, that's it. Old man, you're dead. But we already know what happens if we anger them. No problem, we can say. I have a question or two though, but he just says, address your questions to AHS7. I am AHS9, the great and terrible, and I have many matters on my mind. Trouble me not, meet. If we say you won't answer my questions, you'll answer my weapons. He turns hostile. Feel the wrath of Hubble. So instead, we'd better head off to find AHS7 so that we can become a HB. There's nothing in his room that asks his empty, and opening the southern door leads to another room with two more empty bookcases. Continuing south brings us to the room that leads to the hallway we used to go to the cafeteria. So with that, we've explored everything in the HB. Since we can't get any farther with AHS9 or anyone else in the HB headquarters, we've got to head back to the spiral staircase to talk with AHS7. So he says, now you've spoken to Juan and Vicki. Are you interested in joining our friends and search for enlightenment to the Great Wheel? If we say not right now, can I get back to you? He says do not wait too long before returning with a reply. Your neurodynes will be filled with more and more pollution until we can begin the cleaning process. Or we can say, oh yes, yes, yes, yes. And he smiles. You won't regret this, he says. You may have the run of the compound. Oh, you're a person who knows how to use a weapon. Would you care to use yours in the service of the Great Wheel? Yes, we can say. And he says the de facto leader of the tanker vagrants is a piece of anti-theraputic raw meat named Badger. With his death, they will come to understand our position. Will you remove him? And if we want to work with the habala just so we can say, I'll do it. Let us know when you have completed your task, he says. I should note here that we can get this quest from both AHS7 and AHS9. Now that we're a homologist, we can ask AHS7 some questions. Where can I get fuel for the Poseidon tanker we can ask? And he says, I understand that she have a massive tank of fuel. Maybe you can steal it from them. Where can I find the meaning of all the terms you use? We can ask. And he says, simply use the holodisc one and Vicki provided to you and check out the glossary. So when does the spaceship take off we can ask? And he says, when AHS9 receives his vision from the hub, we will leave and join him in celestial glory. AHS7 recommended we read the booklet that Vicki and one gave us. And now that we're a good homologist, we'd better do so. We find the homologist teachings on our Pipboy and it's a seven page document. All right, sit back with something nice to drink. We're in for a story. Welcome to the Hibology Holodisc. Within these electronic pages, you'll find a quick description of our beliefs, including the formerly repressed teachings of the hub. This holodisc isn't meant to represent the final word on homology. Think of it as a primer. And us as your spiritual guardians. History. We were founded back before the Great Day Luge by an author and visionary of great promise, a man named Dick Hubble. He saw the failure of the medicine of that time and of the failure of religion and of the failure of government. He knew that the world needed something new, the world needed, Hibology. Inspired by music of the time and his own personal experience with extraterrestrial beings, he set out to show us wheels in the sky, to keep them burning and to understand the great wheel of life. We call him the hub, for it is through him that we understand our place in the wheel. He is our center, and we are his spokes. It is around his teachings that we revolve. With the publication of countless books and journals, the hub began spreading the word of homology and immediately became a target for his detractors. They called his work pseudoscience and dangerous dribble that can only hurt its adherents. Despite the collected sightings of extraterrestrial vehicles across the globe, they insisted on quashing the hub's word. We know that they were simply stupid in the sky, but they were powerful. They included governments and corporations and other such entities, keeping the greatest news of all time from the people of the earth. Hibology was driven underground for a time, marshalling its forces against the attacks of those who envied its simplicity, and ease of use for the common man. When at last the homologists of that time struck back, they did it in such a way that few could stand against them. They infiltrated the organizations that sought to destroy them and created television shows that sought to expose the lies the government had fed the people. This caused a subtle backlash against our religion. The common man found reason to doubt a biology because of the distorted teachings of the media, and we had to wage a long campaign against those who would call us crackpots. During this time, sadly, the great hub passed away. Bulls stirred by the knowledge that the hub had achieved unity with the starfather, helping to turn the cosmic wheel in our direction, attaining another level of consciousness, we remained confident in ourselves that ours was the true way. Along the way, we gained adherents, many of whom simply wanted to believe that there was a place out there that is better than this world. We offer proof of life on other planets and a philosophy that allows us to understand the way of the universe. People have come to us over the ages, impressed by the rightness of our minds, and the fact that we have survived the great delusion, skade, teaches us that the great wheel turns towards our teachings. There are so many parallels here between biology and Scientology that I can't stop to point them all out. Dick Hubble, of course, is referenced to El Ron Hubbard, the founder of Scientology, who is also a science fiction author, but moving on, philosophy. Hibology contains a simple philosophy called from the finest religious and philosophical minds of pre-deluge earth. We believe that life, the universe, and everything can best be symbolized by a turning wheel. The outer rim of wheel contains those who do not understand our teachings and who do not understand the truth. We call them rim meat, for the wheel turns over them and grinds them, and they do not appreciate its workings. Those who practice biology are the spokes of the wheel. We understand the motion of the wheel and do our best to facilitate its turning. Those who control a portion of the wheel are called hubs, and as far as we know, there have been only a few hubs enlightened individuals who seek to better the lots of their fellow earthlings. We refer to the founder of Hibology as THE hub, for he is the one with the most correct teaching. In the practice of our religion, we simply apply scientific techniques developed by the hub and perfected by his inheritors to align the flawed neurodines that create this harmony and an asymmetrical wheel. This allows us to purify ourselves and prepare us for self-examination. It is only through self-examination that we understand our place in the cosmos and on the great wheel. It is only through self-examination that we discover ourselves to be worthy of onboarding the fiery rings when they meet us on the planet Quetzal. We think of ourselves as a religion combined with the best scientific technique. Scientific spirituality is what we call it and what we hope you all be calling it before too long. This is our creation story. Eons ago all lived peacefully and in harmony with one another. Body, mind, and spirit were joined in all creatures and the technology that existed boggled the imaginations. It was a time of peace, creativity, and alignment. And then the dark days came. Thrakazog, the pothole, began to teach mind-body dualism and the sundering of the spirit. And a war arose. The Great War destroyed souls and bodies and scattered their remnants across the universe. The Great Wheel came close to separating from the axle of existence. It spoke, spoken in the rut, Thrakazog had created. A new life had to arise. And arise it did. On the planet Terra, as on other planets across the universe. We focus mainly on the life that arose on Terra. For while we believe that we will once again heal the sun-dreded spokes of the wheel with our starry brothers, we must first concentrate on making ourselves useful spokes. This new life was polluted by the sole pieces of the dead. This led to hate and misunderstanding. And wars raged across Terra's surface until one day. A visionary realized that the only way to create peace, understanding and enlightenment, was to cleanse these sole pieces from the spirits of humanity. That visionary was the hub. His cleansing continues today. Small Glossary AHS, a lined hub seeker. The levels of enlightenment are measured by the cleansing of your neurodimes, cleaning out the base negative energy of your meat and converting it to positive mental energy. When you have achieved a strong enough level of zetan energy, you can travel to Quetzal. Or you can wait in hope that the uplifting will come during your lifetime. Alignment When a neurodine is polluted and keeps a seeker's zeta levels down, we align the levels to the universal wheel by running a zeta scan on the affected neurodine, cleansing it of taint. Too much alignment too quickly is harmful for the spirit, however. Enlightenment Enlightenment is the state achieved past AHS-9. When the seeker has gained so much knowledge, he becomes an integral part of the great wheel and leaves this earthly existence behind. Some of the enlightened remain on Terra to guide the rest of us to a state of grace, to show us how to get behind the wheel of our own lives. Oh, well that explains why AHS-9 was so taken aback when we said that the field agent at NCR referred to herself as an enlightened one. That's apparently a title reserved only for their top members. The Great Wheel This refers to the cyclical nature of the universe, space, and time. Everything is a part of the great wheel. There are some who can take control of the wheel, or perhaps they simply understand the direction in which it travels, and we call them gods, prophets, and visionaries. Those who master the great wheel are truly enlightened. Neurodion Neurodions are the stations of the spirit. Ancient religions called them chakras. They can be polluted by soil pieces and negative energy emanating from oppressives. Oppressives Oppressives are those individuals who are so full of negative energy and polluted soil pieces that they drag down those who seek enlightenment by their very presence. They are to be avoided. Many of them are so polluted they do not recognize the value to be found in a good cleansing. And they do their best to divert the course of the great wheel. Quetzal The planet to which the starfather will bring us when we have become optimized, where we will meet with other starry brethren and join them on their flaming wheels in the sky. Rim Meet A basic person One who has not yet been aligned to purify his Neurodions. Starfather Some would call the starfather God We prefer to think of the starfather as the universal force from which we draw our energy. And to which we feed our energy in turn. Again, a cyclical relationship. The uplifting The time when the starfather calls us home to Quetzal, where we will meet our extraterrestrial brethren and move closer to the hub of the great wheel. Those who have made an effort to understand and embrace the words of the hub, no matter their AHS levels, will be invited to join the starfather in the heavens on planet Quetzal. Zeta scan Another word for alignment, the Zeta scan helps to purify your Neurodions and clear your spirit. It consists of a machine that runs massive doses of electricity through your skin. This electricity has been carefully formulated to the exact vault, to the amount of energy needed to drive the negative energy from a Neurodion. By accepting a Zeta scan, your course is slightly corrected to be more in line with the movement of the wheel. And finally, Bibliography Books by the hub. There are hundreds and hundreds of books listed here, including such titles as Scientific Spirituality, Battleground Quetzal, Starfather Above, Collected Shopping Lists, Notes and Musings, How to Sue Your Enemies Effectively, How to Create a Cult, And Future Books to Be Written When I'm Dead. Battleground Quetzal is a reference to Battlefield Earth, One of the science fiction novels written by Elron Hubbard, which was adapted into an awful film in the year 2000, starring John Travolta. And how to sue your enemies effectively, is of course a reference to how Sue Happy, the Scientologist's Church is in general. While this has been one of the most elaborately constructed, Real World Easter Eggs Slash Jokes, we have yet found the Fallout franchise. The Habologists make an appearance in Fallout 4 during the Nuke World DLC. In that DLC, the Habologists we meet at Nuke World make numerous references to the manual we just read. I covered the Nuke World Habologists in a dedicated video that you can watch here. Let me start up the Zeta Rays. Neurodines are locked. I will be squandered at Nuke's and we're done for now. In the manual we just read. In the manual we just read. I remember when I made that rank. Good times. Good times. Now that we're on Habologists, everyone else in the headquarters will talk with us too. But before we go back and talk with them all, we might as well go and kill Badger, heading up the spiral staircase. Before we head that way, we can talk with the scientists in the lab coat next to the shuttle. And he says, I am in need of help, child. Can you help me? Who are you, we can ask? And he says, I am Harry, AHS5. I am the star brother in charge of the rocket ship. We are going to use it to travel to Quetzal. Well, what are you doing here, we can ask? And he says, what I'm doing here is preparing the ship for the Grand Trip to the Star Father. We're very close right now. What can I do for you, we can say? And he says, first, we need vertebrate plants to ensure that we've got the aerodynamics right. If you can do this, check with the she, or go up to that old base in Navarro. And if we have the vertebrate plants that we got from Navarro, we can say, I have the plants for the vertebrate. And he says, you have the plants? Excellent. Now all we need is fuel. The she have a bunch. Let's see if you can go route some to us. Good luck, recruit. Oh no. So when working for the Habologists, we have to choose between fueling their ship that'll take them to Quetzal and fueling the tanker, which takes us to the Enclave Oil Rig. And what a choice. Well, our first task is to kill Badger. So leaving the Golden Gate Bridge, we can pass through Chinatown and head northwest towards the Wharf. We can complete this quest any number of ways. We don't have to personally kill him as long as he dies. So we could use the Shee Assassins to complete this quest, for example. Or we can perform the Shady Sands Chuffle, reverse pickpocket some plastic explosives or dynamite, or just go in Guns Blazing. Any method will do. With Badger, again, we can leave the Wharf pass through Chinatown and head northwest back to the Golden Gate Bridge. Then heading down the Spiral Staircase, we can check in with AHS7. Have you removed this Badger? He asks. Yes, we can say he's gone. Is people shall embrace the hub, he says? All will be well. You have performed a great service. Is there anything else you need me to do, we can ask? And he says, the oppressor of Shee have been contesting our power at wreaking havoc among our brother and with neurodine influencing ways. We believe that if their Emperor is killed, they will see the error of their ways. Will you kill the Emperor? We can reject these guys if we want, but to work with them we have to say, yeah, I'll do it. Let us know when you have completed your task, he says. Now that we rob, all of just, we can talk to the people here who have new things to say to us. Heading back to the computer room, now when we talk with Crockett, he says, okay, now what do you want? So you can upgrade power armor, we can ask? Yeah, I can do that, but what are you willing to trade for it? We can say, I can pay for it. Great, he says, that'll cost you $10,000 straight up. No bartering, I need some new equipment. $10,000 bucks, we can say, that's outrageous. I don't have that kind of money, but he just shrugs. You want the armor or not? It's $10,000 flat out. However, we can instead pass a strength check to say, I'll let you live, but Crockett just looks amused. Are you really threatening me for this, he says? We have a final opportunity to back out, or we can again test our strength and say, yes, do it or die. And if we pass, he looks into our eyes and decides that we're serious. Do you have the armor here, he says? And if we have a suit of T-51B in our inventory, we can say yes. Leave it here for a day, and I'll do it, he says. Before you go, y'all to know, I've only got the material to do this for two sets of armor. If we try to talk with him again, he says it's not ready yet. You have to give me time. But if we wait a day or more, the next time we come back to Crockett, he says, I've got it right here for you. Take it, take it. The hardened suit of T-51B Power Armor has the same bonuses as a traditional suit, plus three to strength, and plus 30 to radiation resistance. But it's significantly better when it comes to resistances. Hardening a suit of Power Armor bumps its damage resistance up from 40 to 50. It's laser resistance from 80 to 90 plasma and electrical from 40 to 50 explosives from 50 to 60 and EMP from 500 to 505. It also grants one more DT for each of these resistances. This makes the hardened suit much better than the regular T-51B, and only slightly worse than the advanced Power Armor, that is, the Unclave Power Armor. Crockett here can harden only two suits of T-51B, and it just so happens that by this time in the game, we have two suits. One that we found at the military base, and the other that we found in the Brotherhood bunker here in San Francisco. We'll go ahead and have him harden the other suit, so that both Sula-Cand Cassidy are wearing the hardened armor. When we next talk to AHS-9, he says, Have you completed your tasks? Your future and that of the wheel on this planet depend on it. As I said earlier, AHS-9 here can give us the same quests that AHS-7 give us, and we can turn them in to either. Not yet, we can say, but I have some questions first. Yes, my child, he says, When does the spaceship take off, we can ask? And he says, The EHS-Quetzel will launch when the stars are right. Oh, so they named the spaceship after the planet Quetzel. Where does all the money we provide go? We can ask. Child, he says, There are some things you are not meant to know for now. And he smiles benignly. Right, so, scam, got it. Adding back to the church, we can talk again with the celebrities. Greetings, Enkzorn. I hope you're enlightened. And this going well. We do have such large hopes for you. Well, after hearing that, that shows and one can say, How could I hook up with you guys? And she says, As sad as it is, Because the star father knows you're a cutie, We probably shouldn't. But we're both flattered. Maybe sometime we can all go to Neroenow and make a film together. Wow, so they really are porn stars from Neroenow. Oh, alright, says the chosen one. Well, what else is there to do as a homologist? And Juan says, You could talk to Harry Rocket on the surface. Maybe he needs some help. Or you could talk to AHS7 or AHS9. They usually have ideas. Or you could watch the prey screen. Or you could cause mischief amongst the enemies of the wheel. Now if we talked with Dave Handy, Who was standing by the shuttle above ground, We find an option here to talk with Vicki directly. Hey Vicki, we can say, Dave H is in love with you. Dave? The computer guy? Says Juan, What a loser. Vicki is mine, all mine. No way, he'll... Excuse me, This is negative energy I'm channeling. I must have fouled my Nero Dines, But then Vicki whispers at us. I think Dave is a cutie, But nothing can happen while Juan is around. A moment later, Juan regains his composure. Who he says? Nero Dines is all clear again. Then heading topside, we can talk with Dave Handy. Now I have to note here that I at least found A pretty annoying bug when trying to talk with Dave Handy. If we exhaust his dialogue options Before going underground and becoming a member of the Habologists, Then for some reason that locks out our ability To talk with him later. Every time we talk with him, He gives us the same response. So if we want to have the conversation we're about to, It's best to talk with Dave Handy once about Vicki And not explore his other dialogue options. Then go underground, talk with Juan and Vicki, Become a Habologist, Go back to Vicki and mention Dave Handy, Then go back topside to get the following conversation. Greetings Enlightened One says Dave Handy. We have a couple of options here. We can say, I talk to Vicki. She and Juan made fun of you And said you're not a real man. And he sits in stunned silence for a moment, Pain crosses his face. Oh, well, he turns his head away. I bet you want to get back at her says the chosen one. You bet I do says Dave Handy. What do you need? We find two options. We can say, I need you to format the Habologist hard drive. There he says, Teach these bastards to use and reject me. Goodbye. This hard drive option we find he was confusing because it's not really referenced in any of the quests and if we choose to have him format the hard drive, we really don't know what happens. And indeed not much happens at all. We do gain karma for convincing him to format the hard drive. But the only change that happens in the game is if we haven't gotten the quest from AHS9 to kill the she emperor, he can no longer give it to us. But oddly enough, AHS7 still can. Yeah, I don't understand the connection between those two events at all. But it's still a good thing to do if we want the karma. We can leave at this point or we can say, well, I was really just kidding. She didn't actually say that. She didn't say that. Oh good. So I've done all of this harm for nothing. I'm going to kill you now. Try it, we can say. And he does, except he runs away. Instead of getting him to format the homologous hard drive, we can say, I want you to hack into the she databases and get some fuel channel to the beside and tanker. There he says, teach these bastards to use and reject me. Goodbye. And that's another way to get the fuel from the she. Now, instead of telling him that Vicki and one made fun of him, we do find an option here to say, I talked to Vicki. She said you're hot and she wants you sometime. And Dave handy says she did? Really? Wow. A beatific smile slowly crosses his face. Thanks. What can I do for you? However, this time when we ask him to hack into the she databases, all he says is, I'm going to move on Vicki. Soon. And then he again asks us what he can help us with. This response doesn't make much sense to me, but the end result is that we have to lie to Dave about what Vicki said in order to get him to steal the fuel for us, which is a somewhat counterintuitive solution to this problem. However, when we ask him to format the homologous hard drive, he says, format the hard drive, he says, are you kidding? No way. I can't do that. You see now he has something to live for. Vicki is interested in him, so it doesn't want to help us. Instead, we've got to convince him or lie to him. It's just a routine cleaning we can say. I've backed up everything else already. And he says, oh, well if you've backed everything up, I'll do it. And he taps at the keyboard. There you go. We can again confess the truth and say, I played you for a sucker so long, in which Casey attacks, or we can say, thank you and walk away. But there are more ways to get fuel for the tanker. So reloading a previous save will explore them next. And with that, we've become a homologist. We killed Badger. We got two suits of hardened power armor. We discovered a new way to get fuel for the tanker. And now we have to find a fuel for their space shuttle, the Quetzal, and assassinate an Emperor. We'll do so and explore the Steel Palace and get to understand the shee in my next episode. I publish many Fallout videos each and every week on my channel. So if you don't want to miss the next one, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have, and you feel like you're still missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. OnClave. Boast your support for the onClave and everything they do with this brand new design. This design comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's, and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find it on other products as well, like smartphone cases, posters, pillows, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do when you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon, or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.