In our last episode, we explored Kendall Hospital, which was the location of the Augusta Safehouse, only to discover that the institute and then the Raiders completely overran the place killing all of the railroad agents. No one got out alive. Or so we thought... Carrington wants word. Sometime later we learn from Carrington that that's actually not quite the case. Ah good, you're here. There's been a development. A radar gang has captured one of our agents, codenamed Blackbird. The twist is, we thought he was already killed at Augusta Safehouse. Dermona clings to the far-fetched hope that A. Blackbird is alive, and B. He can tell us what happened to the synths held at Augusta when it fell. So she wants you to tackle this fool's errand. I'll pass. Glory said the same. Perhaps Dermona will let this matter be dropped now. Is it really a fool's errand? If you chain too many assumptions together, you rarely get what you're bargain for. I doubt we'll find more than a body. If Blackbird's alive, I want to bring him back. As you see fit, give me the details. No promises though. The dead drop has the full briefing. Graders aren't known for keeping a cap as alive. But, since you're risking your neck, good luck. What had we begin the quest butchers build too? And this changes what we know about what happened at the Augusta Safehouse. I ice the corsairs before they found the inn. This time at least. If the institute really did find the Augusta Safehouse, first before the raiders came, then there are really only two explanations I can think of for why this Blackbird would still be alive. A. Blackbird hid when the institute attacked, managed to survive the synths, but was found and then captured by the raiders before being transported to another raider den. Or B. Blackbird managed to escape the Augusta Safehouse during the institute attack, only to be snagged by raiders outside of Kendall Hospital, whereupon he was transported to a raider den for what reason exactly? Why would raiders want a railroad agent? Indeed, did these raiders even know Blackbird was a railroad agent? To find out, we need to hit the dead drops. This dead drop is found in a mailbox just outside the General Atomics Galleria, which my covered in a previous lore video that you can watch here. Inside, we find the Blackbird Report. Blackbird spotted, badly injured. Way too many hostiles for the runner to engage. Request assistance from HQ. Blackbird spotted, badly injured. So another railroad agent recognized Blackbird as he observed Blackbird being escorted to some sort of raider den. The location this railroad agent gives us in the holotape is the Federal Ration Stockpile, and this is a really tricky location, because the Federal Ration Stockpile is swarming with raiders, inside and outside. Additionally, the stockpile is right next to a major road. A road where we can find random encounters, many of which are combat encounters. In my game, I stumbled upon a bunch of patrolling super mutants. That got the blood pumping. But I had to kill before I started picking off the raiders outside. This was a tedious but methodical process for the stealthy railroad character I'm trying to play. Seems we have a tail. Don't look, but I think they've been watched. Looks like we've killed most of the raiders out here, but if Blackbird is still alive, he's being held inside this bunker. We can take the fusion core. The Here, heading inside we find the past and present converge. We can loot a raider corpse right next to a pre-war skeleton lying on the other side of a desk. The skeleton is wearing a military helmet and lying next to an ammo canister, which means this was a soldier. Perhaps the terminal on the desk can shed some light onto this mystery. Stockpile Reception Terminal Federal Rash and Stockpile User Login Null. From here we can again access turret control and spotlight control, and aside from that we find two entries in the first memo, here again we find two entries in the first Attention Security Upgrade. Attention Federal Rash and Stockpile Personnel. In response to recent events, this facility will be operating under heightened security starting immediately. Identification must be worn at all times while on grounds. Investigations must be checked in and given temporary identification while on the premises. This includes delivery staff and vehicle operators. There will be no exceptions. Strict inventory will be taken of Federal Rashans. Don't risk your job by taking anything home. Yes, this means you. In the next one, urgent, potential breach. Urgent. Immediate response required. A group of civilians has discovered the hatch leading into the old tunnels connected to this facility. Simple surveillance of this exit point is no longer adequate. A minimum of three men will be stationed at this point until we can find a way to better secure this route or seal it up entirely. Also, I don't want to hear any more complaining about our choice to build this Federal Storage facility into these tunnels or the struggles of the retrofit operation. The decision has been made within the approved budget and is done. This exit point will be handled and this facility will continue to serve its purpose. Thank you for your cooperation. So there's another entrance to this stockpile. Backing out, we can read the final entry. Deliveries. Next Schedule Delivery. Blamco Food Stuffs. October 23rd. 330 PM. Delivery Driver ID. Thomas Malkinson. Well, I think this explains why we find the bodies just outside. Before the war started on October 23rd, 2077, the government had already begun to stockpile food. But even at that time, civilians who were apparently low on food were trying to find ways into this stockpile to steal. There are two openings, the guarded entrance where we are at now and the other is a hatch, which is apparently at the end of a long tunnel. I think we can explain the skeletons outside like this. After the Great War, citizens who were hungry commandeered this loader or bulldozer that we find outside to try and force their way in. This led to a firefight where upon many of these civilians were killed outside the door, but at least one of the service members was killed inside where we find his skeleton to this day. But a question remains, did any of the civilians force their way in? Did they loot the Federal Ration Stockpile? Are there any rations left? When done exploring, we find a blue door at the back of this room that leads to the Federal Ration Stockpile. Inside we find some blemow mac and cheese on a crate. We know the delivery didn't make it because it was scheduled for 3.30 in the afternoon on the day the bombs dropped and the bombs dropped early that morning. So it looks like they still had some stock. We ran with the top of a staircase and we can take it down to the ground floor. Here we find a big bright light shining at us, but it's one of those indestructible kinds. So we can't shoot it out. Instead we can creep forward and try to get a better look at these raiders. It's just so hard with this light shining in our face. I hope you're all dead by now. While that light really ruined our stealth but we did get through it. After disarming the tin can shimes, we can move inside. We find an ammo box next to some crates and creeping up to the light, we see a tunnel path to the right and a path where the raiders came from to the left. Going left first, we can turn off the radio to avoid demonetization. We find tin cans and a little bit of scrap on these shelves, nothing much else of interest until we get to the end of this long room. Here we find a security door and to the right, a broken door which leads to an underground tunnel. Perhaps this is the entrance to the tunnel we read about on the terminal. Risking a light, we again find not but tin cans and a little bit of food on these shelves. But at the bottom of one, we find a fat man launcher and a mini-nuke. Good to know for later. After living our first aid kit on a wall, we see that the door is a locked security door. But what's that? There's a body on the floor in this room. Could this be the remains of Blackbird? Is he dead? Yes, things didn't work out as far as I am. Over a Bureau HQ, someone put him down. No shit. That's what I heard. Rumor is one guy took out the whole place. That's got to be bold. I'm a German. I get my hands on whoever did this. I'll make a wish they would never born. Tell me about it. The readers are talking about us because we went to the BADTFL regional office and killed Raider Boss Sparta during a previous railroad radiant quest. I believe it was Concierge. The target for that quest is randomly selected by the game and incidentally so was the destination for this one. Butcher's Bill 2 could send us to one of 12 different Raider locations in the Commonwealth. It just so happened to pick the Federal Ration Stockpile because we hadn't been here before. There's a terminal just outside here. A storage lockup terminal, but it's locked with a master lock. I couldn't pick this but if we could, all we find are the same memos that we read on the terminal outside and the ability to unlock this door. Well since I couldn't hack this terminal, we won't open the door this way. We've got to find another way. Now we see this opening to the west, which looks like it leads to a tunnel, but there was that other path that we passed by the light. So trying to be thorough, we can head that way first and head through this other door to the west. This leads to a door that takes us down a staircase covered in frag mines. Here we find another entrance to a tunnel. The walls are earthen and the ceiling is criss-crossed by pipes. We can disarm these mines carefully as we creep forward, but it looks like the Raiders in here are already dead. Hopping down to investigate, we find a dead raider here and we didn't kill this guy. Perhaps he stood on one of his own mines. But to continue, we climb a staircase and round a corner past a glowing red light to arrive at a catwalk, overlooking a flooded section beneath. This room is a bit complex. We see that the catwalk continues ahead of us, leading to a door on this upper level. And yet below us is the door bathed in red light, directly ahead of us, and to the left is another opening. We're here to begin. Well, let's start by jumping over the gap and exploring this room at the end. Here we find two skeletons, huddled together next to a stealth boy and a wooden crate. These skeletons are wearing military belts, so these were servicemen. I get the impression that if hungry civilians didn't manage to barge their way in and kill these guys, that the servicemen who were stationed here as the bombs dropped, probably ate through much of the stockpile here until they ran out, in which case they huddled together and died of starvation or radiation exposure. The stealth boy, however, gives us the impression that they were trying to hide from something, so maybe the civilians really did break in. Next to these skeletons is an explosive's box, almost as if these guys mined the place and were ticking up a last stand. But this room is a dead end. We can't continue from here. Well, we either go back or we drop it down, but before we do, oooh. Looking below, we see a raider walking around and she's down. Uh oh. Looks like Deacon has already made the decision for us. He walks off into the eastern doorway and then, oh, get Deacon! How did you do that? Wow, you really are a man of mystery. While I had a sneaking suspicion that that one doorway by the security door led to that lower section of the tunnel, so to prove my suspicion right, we can retrace our steps all the way back to the security door and take this door to the west down into the tunnels. Sure enough, after walking through a bunch of broken cinder blocks, we arrive at a catwalk overlooking a flooded section. The top portion of this catwalk does indeed lead to the room that we just came from. There's the partially broken catwalk that we explored above us. But there's this lower section down here that I want to explore first. Sadly, it's really not worth it. We can dive into the water, but there's nothing here. So moving into the room that we had just come from, we see the doorway bathed in red light to the south, but we can take this staircase down into this flooded section to see if we can find anything. But like the last one, this flooded section is empty. However, as we move along this bottom catwalk, we do see a door in the wall to the right. So after looting the body of the raider we killed from above first, we can move towards that door where we find a novice locked ammo canister on a barrel. After picking the lock, including the canister, we see the door is also locked with a novice lock. After picking the lock and opening the door, we arrive in a machine room. Here we find a fusion generator against the western wall and we can take the fusion core. And then lying on a console is a cap stash, directly above a chem cooler filled with rad X. So looting some bobby pins in a lower drawer, we see that this room is a dead end. So back to the catwalk in the flooded room, we can take it right to a last arrive at the doorway bathed in red light and this is our only path forward. We creep forward consciously because visibility is low here. There is a fog or a mist that makes it hard to see. Rounding a corner however, we see raiders and we can try to pick them off stealthily. Woo! Note to self, don't hide behind a cardboard box. Looks like there was only the turret in that one raider in that room. So creeping forward we can loot the machine gun turret that we destroyed, the body of the raider, and then creep up the staircase to see what's here. We find a bed that we can sleep in, a novice locked tool box on a supply shelf, and a cooler on the ground by a bed. We find a path out of this room in a brick wall to the east. Here we find a staircase, again bathed in red light. Creeping to the top of it we find a large room filled with pillars and a couple of raiders. You killed them! And there we go. Looks like this room is clear. Here we find a staircase leading down to a lower section and an upper section here. We see that had we gone down, it looks like there's a passageway here that leads to a door in the eastern wall. But I want to finish exploring up here first. There's nothing on this northern ledge. So crossing the catwalk, we can explore this upper southern ledge and loot the dead. Here we find a hole in the wall to the south. But it's blocked up with boxes. We can't get into that room. So it looks like our only option is to take the staircase down to this little trough area and follow it all the way to the east where we find a red door. Opening the door we immediately find a raider. What the... Make that too! We find a maze of shipping canisters. After looting the dead we see a hallway to the south. But I wanted to explore this section to the north first. After weaving through the shipping canisters, we find a stack of first aid boxes and cans of paint. So this is how the raiders turn the regular first aid boxes into chem boxes. You know those yellow boxes that look suspiciously like first aid boxes but have been decorated by raiders. This is where it's done. Here we find another terminal on a desk right next to some security doors. Impuring up we again see that corpse on the ground. That must be blackbird. But just like on the other side of this room, the lock up terminal is locked with a master lock which again I can't hack. So we still can't get in. Turning around we can go through that hallway to the south. Here we find a small stock room. With an expert locked safe on the wall I couldn't pick this but if we could inside his ammunition. Opening the blue door in this room we arrive in another long hallway. The hallway ends at a dimly lit room filled with pipes. We see a number of raiders walking around. We again try to take a stealthy shot. I'll find you. We got fun time incoming. We need to turn up your deck. This is Raider Boss Red Tourette, leader of this Raider gang and likely the one responsible for kidnapping blackbird. Well she rushed us and got some good hits in that crippled main. Thankfully Dikum was there to finish her off. On the body of Red Tourette is the Federal Ration Stunkpile password. At last we can get into that room. But first we can explore this one. This room is baffling with a variety of different levels connected to each other by staircases, walkways and platforms. We find a weapon workbench here. Then an armor workbench at the bottom of an upper platform where we can loot the machine gun turret and a dead raider. There's a toolbox and a tool case on this shelf next to a makeshift battery. We find an elevated platform that leads to what appears to be Red Tourette's private room. Back off a table in the middle of the room we find a copy of US covert operations manual. Face paints fundamentals, permanently more difficult to detect while sneaking. Also on this table are a number of notes. Moving from left to right we can start with, don't worry sis. Damn it, I'm sorry sis. I don't know what happened. I was covering the entrance like you told me. We had Tower Tum's little maggots on the run. And damn, I remember a face full of plaster than nothing. When I woke up I was here in Bean Town Brewery with Tower Tum's ugly mug grinning at me. They've been good to me so far, but I only think it's because they want our food. Don't give them a thing sis, I'll find a way out of here. Lil. Well looks like those two soldiers didn't die of starvation. The raiders came here and turned this stockpile into a raider than because it had food. Here we are uncovering a bit of raider intrigue. Sounds like there was a rivalry between two raider gangs, Red Tourette's gang here at the stockpile and Tower Tum's gang at Bean Town Brewery. In the next note, to my big sister red, you've got to send more of those snack cakes. Otherwise Tum said he's gonna chop me to bits. I'm scared. He's a real intimidating guy. Please send more cakes. Think of your sister. Me. Please help, Lily. Huh. This letter doesn't read at all like the last letter from Lily. For one thing, she signed the last letter, Lil, not Lily, and she didn't speak of Tower Tum with much regard, but in this one she's like, oh he's a real intimidating guy. Some things off. In the last one, Red, it's Lily. Red, it's Lily. I don't know how much longer they're going to let me live if you keep sending these lousy supplies. Devil eggs? Come on. My life is on the line here, Red. I heard them talking about what they're gonna do to me if the next shipment doesn't have better stuff. It ain't good. No more eggs. Lily. Whoops. Something happened between the first letter and the second letter that made Lily right in a completely different way. What could that be? I won't spoil it here because I actually already covered this Raider story in a completely different video on Red Tourette and Tower Tum at Bean Town Brewery that you can watch here. As we continue looting Red Tourette's room, we find packaged foodstuffs, Anukakola Cherry, Akula with goodies, a Chem Box, Anukakola Quantum, and an Avislok Terminal, Red Tourette's Terminal. Inside we find five entries, as well as Turrette's control. In the first Bean Town Bastards. Sis caught a pair of Tower Tum's goons sniffing around the front entrance. Lil and I interrogated them and it sounds like the liquid diet they've got going over at the brewery ain't working so well for them. Apparently Tower Tum's got some sort of plan to fight his way in here and steal our food. I'd like to see those drunk idiots try. In the next one, Lil's gone. Lil's gone. Tower Tum and his boys made a run on the stockpile today and in the chaos Lil went missing. A sent out a crew, saying if anyone could find where she went, but I'm fearing the worst. If Tum somehow got his hands on her, I'll rip out that bastard's heart and nail it to my wall. In the next one, he's got her. Son of a bad jerk person. Tower Tum's got Lil. He's making her write me letters, begging for supplies. Says he's gonna cut her up if I don't. I tried to get a crew together to rescue her, but they talked me down. Said Tum would just kill her if we make a move, but we've got to do something. I'll give that big jerk his food for now, but not before our muts get a chance to market. Ew. In the next one, something's not right. Got another letter from Lil, but something's off. She calls me red. I hate that name and she knows it. I think something's happened. Tum's recruiting hard now that he's got our provisions. I'm gonna send one of my boys to sign up, see if he can't figure out what's going on. And in the last one, no sign of Lily. Crap, crap, crap. The man I sent to Beamtown Brewery said there was no sign of Lil anywhere in the place. Tum must have moved her somewhere. I've sent out a crew to start looking for her. Looking in their Lil, we're coming. But Tower Tum did not move her someplace. To find out exactly what Tower Tum did to Lily, watch my video on Red Turret in the Beamtown Brewery. But this is all beside the point. We're not here for Raider in Treg. We're here to find out what happened to Blackbird, and these Raiders aren't talking at all about a railroad agent. Well, we see a path off to the northwest, but now we've got the key to the stockpile room. So, turning around and backtracking all the way to that room, we can use the key on the storage lockup terminal. Inside we find the same memo that we've seen in all the terminals here, and an option to open the door. The door opens. Heading inside we see a corpse on the ground, and it is Blackbird. On his corpse is a note from Blackbird. Augusta Overrun. Two Coursers, a known number of old models. I'm the only survivor. They came straight at us. New our location. Packages fate is unknown. If I don't make it out, make them pay. Blackbird. So the Institute did find them first. They came with two Coursers too. The same strategy they used at Taikander Roga. Remember there was one inside and one outside waiting for us. Blackbird was just super unlucky to be a survivor from Augusta only to be captured by raiders later. On the ground next to Blackbird is an end of dungeon steamer trunk. And in this room, we've hit the jackpot on boxed foods and nukakola. We find two nukakola quantoms, a number of boxes of fancy lad snack cakes, sugar bombs, lamb comacan cheese, salosberry steak, cram, bubble gum, dog food and yes, even, devil eggs. But that's all, that's in the room. To find our way out, we need to go all the way back to Red-Torette's room. And this time, head down the hallway to the northwest. At the end of the hallway, we find a path off to the left, and that room that we saw blocked in by crates and shipping canisters earlier. Oh, so this would have led there. But as it's blocked off, we turn left and head towards the light. We find some psycho and a cardboard box on our way there, and passing the light as well as a bunch of pipes. We find a ladder leading to a hatch. We arrive inside the lonely chapel. And what a sight. We find the skeletons of soldiers on the ground behind the pews and sandbag barricades. A couple of civilian skeletons are on the opposite side of the sandbag barricades next to the door. And opening the door, we find even more civilian skeletons. It's just like the terminal told us. This entrance in the lonely chapel was discovered by hungry civilians in 2077. They assaulted the stockpile with machinery from one end and storming it from the other. They died, the soldiers died, all of them died, leaving the stockpile essentially untouched only for raiders to find it. Years later. With the news of Blackbird's demise, we can head back to the railroad and again deliver some sad news to Dr. Carrington. The survivor from Augusta, Blackbird, is dead. I didn't find any evidence of where the synth is. As I expected. Well, at least you weren't hurt. Perhaps Desdemona would listen to me next time. Hopefully this will help you in your future missions. Now if you don't mind. And that we complete Butcher's Bill 2. He gives us some wraparound goggles and 175 bottle caps. And then apparently he gives Desdemona a really hard time. I don't want to talk about Blackbird. Carrington is sure to give me an earful about it. But can we really blame Desdemona? It was a fool's errand. There was hardly a hope in the world that Blackbird was still alive. But even if there's only hope, shouldn't we do everything we can? To leave no railroad agent behind. At any rate. Blackbird's dead. Highrises dead. Augustus destroyed. Takonda Roga's destroyed. Randolph is compromised. The switchboard is burnt up. What are we even doing here? How can the railroad possibly win against the Institute? Should we even keep doing this? Maybe we should just give up now. But we won't give up now. Instead we keep fighting. We'll continue with the story of the railroad and the plight of the synths in my next episode. I publish new episodes each and every week on my channel. So if you don't want to miss it, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have already but you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxford. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got an Oxplushy available for preorder. Oxplushy is one of a kind and inventory is limited. Once we sell out, it's gone forever. I still have some in stock so preorder yours today. We plan to start shipping at the beginning of Q2 2024. I've also got a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other items as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mugs, stickers, prints, etc. So if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in another way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. YouTube members get little badges that appear next to their names in the comment sections of my videos and access to Oxymogies that they can use in my video comments and in the live chats of my live streams. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon for the next episode in the full story of the railroad. Hear anything, Doc? And out of the loop? Lots of sick and injured taking up my time. Now, if you need treatment, let me know. Not interested. Alright, excuse me.