cicada I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. War. War never changes. The Romans waged war together slaves and wealth. Spain built an empire from its lust for gold and territory. Hitler shaped a battered Germany into an economic superpower. But war never changes. In the 21st century, war was still waged over the world. But war never changes. In the 21st century, war was still waged over the world. War was still waged over the resources that could be acquired. Only this time, the spoils of war were also its weapons. Petroleum and uranium. For these resources, China would invade Alaska. The US would annex Canada. And the European Commonwealth would dissolve into quarreling, bickering nation states. Bent on controlling the last remaining resources on Earth. In 2077, the storm of World War had come again. In two brief hours, most of the planet was reduced to cinders. And from the ashes of nuclear devastation, a new civilization would struggle to arise. A few were able to reach the relative safety of the large underground vaults. Your family was part of that group that entered Vault 13. In prison safely behind the large vault door under a mountain of stone, a generation has lived without knowledge of the outside world. Life in the Vault is about to change. Hey, you're here. Good. We've got a problem, a big one. The controller chip for our water purification system is giving up the ghost. Can't make another one, and the process is too complicated for a workaround system. Simply put, we're running out of drinking water. No water, no vaults. This is crucial to our survival. And frankly, I think you're the only hope we have. You need to go find us another controller chip. We estimate we have four to five months before the vault runs out of water. We need that chip. We marked your map with the location of another vault. Not a bad place to start, I think. Just be safe. Okay. The door to Vault 13 closes behind us. The door to Vault 13 closes behind us. If we turn around to try to get back in, we find that the door is locked. Sorry, but we can't let you back in right now. Technical problems. Try again later. We could simply wait a few days, and when we come back, the door is unlocked. This allows us to access some other side quests in the vault earlier. But we'll come back later for now. We've got to find this water chip. We arrive at a cave, and it looks like someone was here before us. On the ground, we find a body. And it looks like the doors to Vault 13 have opened at least once before. For this skeleton is wearing a Vault 13 jumpsuit. The pose of his skeleton suggests that he was clawing at the door trying to get in. Or maybe the doors never opened at all. Maybe he died in 2077 and arrived at his vault too late. Searching the bones we find a different assortment of goods, depending on the character we chose to create. In this case, I found a knife, add some 10-millimeter ammunition. Jacketed hollow point in particular, distinguished from the armor-piercing type of ammunition, by its bronze-colored bullets. The armor-piercing rounds have blue-colored bullets. Jekorian the Overseer saw fit to send us out into the wasteland with a 10-millimeter pistol, so at least we're armed. However, he didn't warn us that this cave is filled with rats. There are so many rats here that we could quickly expend all of our ammunition. It's a bit of work, but the experience is welcome this early in the game. At last, we work our way to the cave exit. And we arrive in a completely unknown wasteland. Jekorian told us that he knows of another Vault off to the east. Vault 15. That sounds like a reasonable place to find a replacement water chip. Heading that way, however, we get attacked by a variety of creatures. Mole rats. Rat rats and the like. But the journey is long, and the mountains are steep. It is long before we crave fresh water. Some food in a place to lay our head. Thankfully, along the way, we stumble upon an unknown village. And upon arrival, we learned that this place is called Shady Sands. The Greeder at the Gate is kind enough to warn us to put away our weapons. Strolling around with weapons brandish doesn't make us any friends. This man is Seth, and he can provide us with a bit of helpful information. Shady Sands is a small, peace-loving community, and they farm for their own food. However, Seth informs us that they are constantly plagued by raider and rat scorpion attacks. The rat scorpions attack for practical reasons. There, after the Brahmin, that the residents of Shady Sands use for milk and farming, but the rat scorpions have a horrifying poison. Seth tells us that his own brother Jarvis was recently killed by the rat scorpions. But thankfully, Shady Sands has a doctor named Roslo, and Roslo is working on a rat scorpion poison antidote. Seth then suggests that if we'd like to lend a hand with their rat scorpion problem, we can talk with the leader of Shady Sands, a man named Eridesh. The raiders constantly harass the town, but so far Seth has been successful at repulsing them, by organizing the town's guards to repel their attacks. One of the guards who fights the raiders is a fellow named Ian, who will see if we can find him, and then Seth tells us that the raider camp can be found off to the southeast. Next, we can talk to Katrina, who's standing nearby. The game describes her as having a very pretty smile. She gives us a rundown on some game mechanics, introducing us to the Stimpack for the first time, and telling us how the first aid in Doctor Skill's work. And it is Katrina here, who tells us that the Whistland's only currency is bottle caps. Something we probably didn't know as we've been in a vault all our lives. The reason bottle caps work is a currency is because they are backed by merchants of the hub. She doesn't elaborate, but we can presume that the hub is some sort of large settlement that we'll bump into later. She tells us that she was raised in a vault, but the vault was overcrowded, which eventually led to a schism, causing many people to leave the vault, taking all of the best equipment with them. She was one of the ones who remained, but when their vault was eventually attacked, they didn't have the numbers or the technology to defend themselves, Katrina ended up hurt. But she was rescued by the people of Shady Sands who found her, and brought her here to heal. She then tells us that her vault was none other than vault 15. The very vault we were sent to to recover its water chip. But if she's here, this must mean that the vault was sacked. If it was sacked, the water chip could have been destroyed. But then again, perhaps whomever sacked it had no idea the value of this water chip, and maybe we'll find it intact. We'll learn more about exactly what went on at vault 15, a little bit later. Katrina and the people of Shady Sands apparently worship a deity named Dharma. If not a deity, he s some sort of religious figure in their culture. She attributes her rescue and good health to him. To learn more, she also directs us to their leader, Eradash, whom she says we can find in the hut in the center of town. She then tells us where we can find the merchant guard named Ian, who was wounded recently and is in town recuperating. Perhaps he can tell us how to deal with the raiders. Now we can explore Shady Sands. Heading into the hut to the right, we see a number of people we can chat with. They give us much of the same information we've already received. But in the eastern wing of this hut, we find a man and a black-lover jacket in Blue Jeans named Ian. This must be the merchant guard that both Seth and Katrina talked about. Hello stranger, he says you look like you're new here. What s your name? Now one thing about Fallout 1 is we can be rude to everyone, but almost everyone responds negatively if we are. Locking us out of conversations. And there's rarely ever a reason to be rude or disrespectful. We never will gain anything, we don't learn anything new. So for the remainder of this series, I will mostly skip the hostile, rude or arrogant options, unless they reveal something that we would otherwise miss. So being friendly with Ian, we learned that he was once a caravan guard for the merchants from the hub. However, he was wounded by a raid of bandits. He came here to Shady Sands where they helped him recover. And he has proved to be very useful to the people here, due to his knowledge of the outside world. Since he has recuperated, he's traveled to a few places, the hub and junk town. And Ian here can mark both locations on our map, but he still considers Shady Sands to be his home. We can tap into his knowledge of the wasteland to learn a little bit more about this world. He tells us about the local raider gangs, and there are three main groups, the cons, the vipers and the jackals. They all dislike each other, and they all frequently raid Shady Sands. After learning everything we can from Ian, we can ask him if he'd like to travel with us. He says that he's interested, but it's going to cost us a hundred caps for his services. But since we just started, we don't have that kind of money. Or instead of paying him, we can offer him a piece of the action instead, in which case he says, alright, I'll help you out in exchange for my share of the loot. However, this option requires having intelligence of six and passing a speech check. We can repeatedly ask him if he'd like a piece of the action until we successfully pass the speech check. Or if our charisma is nine or greater, he'll immediately offer to join us free of charge. And with that, we gain our first companion, Ian. Ian is a great early game companion, who becomes a bit of a liability later on, but we'll cover that at a later date. One thing we should mention about Ian right up front is that, never upon any circumstances, should we give him any burst weapons, like the 10-millimeter SMG? Ian has no spatial awareness. If he has a burst weapon in his inventory, he will use it on enemies, even if that means killing the Vault Dweller. The darkness of the afterlife is all that awaits you now. May you find more peace in that world than you found in this one. Ian is notorious for just blasting the Vault Dweller with burst weapons, so instead it's best to give Ian pistols. Now, this is never said in the game, but most of the companions can only use a small handful of weapons, and that's because the animations to use those weapons were never included in their individual sprite. This early on, we can give him a 10-millimeter, later on we'll want to give him a 14-millimeter or a 223-pistol, either of those can be used as his endgame weapons. He's also very handy in melee, he loves to use his knife, and oftentimes he will revert to melee combat unless we specifically ask him to draw his best weapon. I found that only then would he use his pistol. Keeping him at range is important later on, so that we don't end up accidentally killing him ourselves. But we'll talk more about that later. There are many small huts here that are not very interesting, with villagers who have standard dialogue and containers with nothing in them. But if we head to the center of Shady Sands, we find a rather large hut, and inside we find the leader of the small community named Eradash. Greetings. Your business in Shady Sands might be... I'm from a vault to the west. My people are dying of thirst, and I need to find a water pump chip for them to survive. Wanderer, I shall believe you, for now. You may enter Shady Sands, but be warned, your every move will be watched. Hey, I was wondering if I could ask you a few questions. Certainly. What do you wish to know? What can you tell me about the other towns around here? Junktown lies south up here, though there is little in the way of visitation. From stories I'm certain there are cities south of that. Thanks Eradash. What's going around here in Shady Sands? Oh my yes. Great packs of rad scorpions are killing our herds. We don't know where they're from, and no matter how many we kill, there's always more. And now the monsters are attacking my people. Razlo is trying to find a cure for their poison, but I'm not sure how it goes. We can offer the help, either for free or for a price, or we can say, that's terrible. Hey, can I ask you a few more questions? You may ask, but please hurry, there are more important uses for my time. In which case he frowned, Zadas, for the rest of the game. If we offer the help for a price, As Darmus said, those who tend their own flock, know the shepherd. I know it's hard for you to trust, but I would like to help. Yes, yes, yes, yes, please talk to Razlo. He possesses far more information on these creatures than I. He sends us off to talk with a man named Razlo. Razlo is that doctor that Seth told us about who's working on some sort of rad scorpion antidote. We find him in a hut to the southwest, however he won't talk to us until morning. So waiting until morning, we can ask him what he knows about the rad scorpion menace. And it is from Razlo here that we learn that the rad scorpion mutated from the North American Emperor scorpion. Information that is confirmed by Herbert daring Dashwood in 10penny tower from Fallout 3. He tells us that his medical knowledge would lead him to believe that as the mutated rad scorpions grew bigger, their poison would become more anti-looted. However, the reality is the opposite. The large mutated scorpions have a much more potent poison. And we find that even NPCs in this world are baffled by the interesting biology of the Fallout universe. Razlo says that how such a large creature could even be possible by natural evolution or even radiation-induced mutation is beyond him. A question I'm sure we've all pondered ourselves. But we can't deny the reality. And so we've got to go kill some scorpions. Razlo says that the rad scorpions are sensitive to light, so we are likely to find them in some sort of cave. He says that if we can get a sample of some of their poison, he can create some antivetum for us. Now that we've learned everything about Razlo that we can, we can explore the rest of this town. Heading to the town square we pass by an obelisk. This pillar is the showpiece of Shady Sand Square. It tells stories to remind the people of hope and peace. For wandering around nearby is a young woman named Tandy. Hi, I heard there was a travelur in town, but I was kind of skeptical until I saw you. My name's Tandy, what's yours? My name is Oxhorn. Well, how do you like our little town? Board yet? You know it, there's nothing to do here, but watch the Brahma mate. Finally, someone else who sees. Of course, you've probably been everywhere, so this... this must be hell for you. If you're so bored, why don't you leave? Me? Leave? I wish. I don't know enough to leave alone. No one else wants to go. Worst of all, my father says he would have a heart attack if something happened to me. Hmm, tough situation. Hey, can I ask you a few questions? Sure, I guess. I've never been out of here, so I don't know what help I can be. So what do you need? What else is around these parts? There's a bunch of cities down south, but since you're such a great traveler, I'm sure you know that already. What's going on here in town? Same as always, boring. Have you heard any stories from down south? Just stuff. I heard a tale from a traveler up from the south. He said the death claw was a creature that killed people at night. He said no one can catch it because it can disappear like smoke. Hmm, not that I believe it, of course. Junktown's a small city to the southwest. It's supposed to have pretty good trading, but my father won't even look into it. He says we need to stay protected. Yeah, right. Caged is more like it. The hub is supposed to be a great city to the south. I've always wanted to see it, but I've never got the chance. We can ask her how she likes it here. Yeah, it's okay, I guess. I mean, it is home at all. But it's so boring. You know, I want to see the world. Well, I'm sure it's not that bad. You live your all your life and see how you like it. Anything else you want to know? It seems nice and safe to me. Yeah, real safe. And so boring, I think my brain's going to leak out of my ear at any moment. Well, that's about it, Tandy. Thanks for your time. Well, thanks for talking. We don't get many strangers here, so we always get to talk to new people. See ya. A little does the vaultweller or even Tandy realize at this moment how important Tandy will eventually become. But we won't learn how important she becomes until the events have followed, too. If we explore a bookshelf inside the hut at the northwest corner of town, we find a scout handbook, which if we read, increases our survival skill. But reading books takes time, time that we could be spending looking for the water chip. And remember, we only have 150 days to find it, which makes every book we read a bit of a gamble. But we see after reading the book that it is now daytime, and we can head off to finish exploring Shady Sands. The easternmost portion of Shady Sands is their farm. We find a number of crops planted here, corn cabbage. We can chat with a farmer named Chris, who tells us how hard he and the members of Shady Sands have worked, to irrigate the desert, to make things grow. There's a well in the middle of town, but we can't throw a cap in there, and we find the Brahma pen that attracts all of the Radscorpion to the northeast. Heading inside the Rancher home just next to the pen, we can go into one of the bedrooms where we find a bookshelf. Inside the bookshelf, we find another Scouthand book, which again increases survival and a rope. The rope is really important, we need to save this. There are only three moments in this game when we need rope. Two are about to happen, and one will happen much later. So we'll have to keep our eyes peeled for more rope. With Ian as a companion, and when we feel we're ready, we can head back to Seth and ask him to take us to the Radscorpion caves. He says that he can't go himself, he has to stay here and protect the town, but he can show us the way. If we agree, we arrive at the cave many hours later. The cave mouth beckons us to go deeper into the layer of the Radscorpions. On just outside the entrance, we see the remains of a Brahmin. We must be at the Rad Spot. Heading inside, we find a split, a path going north and a path going south. Heading south first, we immediately find two Radscorpions. When ready, we can attack. And after a fierce battle, we defeat them both. On their corpses, we find Radscorpion tails. This is what we need to bring back to Razzlo so that he can synthesize a Radscorpion antidote. With this southern wing explored, we can head north. At the very end of the northern passage, we see that it splits again to the east and west. Adding west first, we find one more Radscorpion. Let's see if you enjoy this, says Ian. And after a fierce battle, the Radscorpion dies. We can try to loot this Radscorpion tail, but we've reached our maximum carrying capacity. And carrying capacity has been the bane of my existence throughout this entire game. It's based on our strength times 25. So if we start the game with only five strength, our carry weight limit is only 150 pounds. There are traits and perks we can take to improve this. And if we equip items that increase our strength, it also increases our carry weight. But I learned quickly that I just can't take everything with me. Especially later in the game, we end up leaving behind very valuable weapons, just because we can't carry them. It's also tricky to trade with companions. It's not intuitive. We can bring up a barter dialogue with companions. In this way, we can give anything we want to a companion. But if we want to take anything back, we have to give them money. And they want to agree to the trade, unless the amount of money we give them is worth the items we're taking off their inventory. The solution is to use the steel skill. So in order to freely trade with our companions, we have to steal from them. In this way, we can take into place whatever we want. But each companion has his or her own max carrying capacity as well. Thankfully, Ian here is pretty strong, so he can carry a lot for us. But we find a heart of this Radscorpion nest if we travel all the way to the east. Here we find no fewer than six Radscorpions. We can do our best to take them out one by one so they don't all mob us. Let's see if you enjoy this, as Ian. That sounds like he's having a good time. And at last, after a fierce battle, we defeat them all. When done looting as many of the Radscorpion stingers as we can carry, we can leave the cave. Heading back to the entrance of shady sands, we can check in with Seth. Our entire town is grateful to you for destroying the Radscorpions. Thank you, Seth. Heading down to Razlow's shack, we can hand him the Radscorpion stingers. He says, let me see the sack. He's confident he can do something with it. If we hang around for a while, he finishes his experimentation and he offers us a free sample of his antidote. The antidote cures Radscorpion poison. We gain 250 experience points, and we can have him make as much antidote as we want. But each antidote takes a lot of time to produce. And remember, we are racing at ticking clock, heading to the center of town we can check in with our adash. Ah, things are much more settled now. Razlow has been working on a cure for the Radscorpion poison, and with that, we should be able to fight what's left of them. You don't need to worry anymore. I destroyed the nest. You are truly a hero. I know that the people of Shady Sands are most grateful. Now that we've helped the town of Shady Sands, and with Ian as a trusty companion, we can make our way to Vault 15. Where hopefully, we'll find the water chip we need to restore the water filtration system of Vault 13. We'll pick up right here where we leave off in tomorrow's episode. Welcome to my series on the full story of Fallout 1. This has been a long requested series on my channel, and I am so happy to say that I've finally finished collecting all the footage that I need. So I'm going to dedicate the next week or so to telling the story of Fallout 1. The cool thing about the very first Fallout is there's no right or wrong way to go about telling the story. We can explore many of the locations in this game in any order and still beat the game. It's not linear at all. So I'm going to put together the different pieces of the story and what I think is the most logical way to tell it. Since this game is decades old at this point, there are a lot of hoops to jump through to get it to work on a modern computer. If you're interested in playing Fallout 1 on your own, I provide a list of handy resources in the description below. These are all walkthroughs, guides, high-resolution packs, bug fixes, and so forth that I use to get this to work. So, twirl open the description if you're interested in playing the game yourself. I publish many Fallout videos each and every week on my channel. So if you want to make sure you don't miss my next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. I have a shirt shop with a number of unique designs you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wide array of colors. They also come on other products as well, smartphone cases, pillows, mugs, posters, prints, etc. So if interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming one of my patrons on Patreon. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you tomorrow morning, right nearly with episode two.