Evitadea teman Dº In our last episode, Kaisar demanded that we destroy the brotherhood of steel. But as he gave us his orders, he suffered an absente seizure. Earlier in the day, he gripped his skull in pain. Something is going on with Kaisar. But he refuses to acknowledge it. If we bring it up, he shuts us down. All we can do now is continue on with our mission and hope he's okay. Now somehow, Kaisar had a key to the front door of the Hidden Valley bunker. This makes it easy to get inside, but once we get inside, the brotherhood sends us on a mission to kill a nearby NCR soldier before they allow us in. This quest has us go back and forth a whole lot, which takes up a lot of time. If you're interested in the full story of the Hidden Valley bunker, and if you'd like to learn exactly what the brotherhood of steel is doing here in the Mahave wasteland, check out the dedicated video I made on the topic that you can watch here. But since all we have to do is destroy the brotherhood, we're gonna skip all that. We need to find the fastest way into the bunker. And the fastest way is to use the Forecasters key. If you recall, in my recent video on the forecaster whom we meet at the 188 Trading Post, he described Veronica as a key, and she is a key. She lets us into the Hidden Valley bunker without having to do any quests. The problem is that the 188 Trading Post is NCR territory, and in our last video we made ourselves permanent enemies of the NCR, and so I don't have faction disguise to try and find Veronica. But even while wearing the disguise, there were a few people here who could see through it. The first was the arms merchant. We met her in my video on the Forecaster. She is not a ranger, but she is a very capable soldier. So I guess it makes sense that she could see through my disguise. And the other one was an NCR heavy trooper. I don't remember the sky being here in my main playthrough, but for some reason, now that I've sided with the Legion, these power armor wearing NCR troopers are popping up all over the place. Thankfully, those were the only two members of this town who became hostile. We find Veronica, standing by the bar, and as long as we don't disparage the brotherhood of Steelwall talking with her, she readily agrees to join our company. With Veronica in tow, we can head on over to Hidden Valley and then look for the bunker with the big stump growing out of the top. This is the one that leads to the brotherhood of Steel headquarters. On the other side of the door we can go down some stairs, and here, Veronica becomes useful. Hold on, I've got this. I'd like a large atomic shake and a double brawman burger. And easy on the agave sauce this time. We gave you a pass with Veronica. It's for your safety. I know where you live, Ramos. Open up. A big shake. Opening up. Welcome back Veronica. Through the door we enter the bunker. We go down some stairs, and instead of sending us on some long quest, Paladin Ramos just tells us to be on our best behavior. Because we came here with Veronica, he's going to trust us. This point we can dismiss Veronica so that she doesn't have to see what we're about to do. Now there are a few ways to destroy the brotherhood here. We could simply shoot them all, which I can't do on this character since I had to go back in time to before I killed Warpaz and Kulta. This character I think is only level 6. This second option is to hack the terminal in Ramos' office and to turn on the laser turrets. That's helpful, but the laser turrets are only in a few places, so we'd still have to kill a bunch of the brotherhood. Now this pre-war US military bunker was equipped with a self-destruct sequence. And even though it is now occupied by the brotherhood of steel, this sequence is still intact. To initiate the self-destruct, we need three keys. One is held on the inventory of Elder McNamara. One is on the inventory of head Paladin Harden, and the final one is on the inventory of head scribe Taggart. Now that we have all three key cards, we can access the self-destruct authorization terminal, but apprentice Watkins likes to hang out a little bit too close for comfort. Might as well kill Taggart too. Accessing the terminal, we can generate the self-destruct password. With the password in hand, we can then move over to the self-destruct terminal and begin the bunker self-destruct sequence. After completing this step, even if we did so from stealth, we still become vilified with the brotherhood of steel. Not sure how they knew it was me, I was even using the stealth boy. I did my best to stealth out, but even with the stealth boy, they saw me. So it was just a matter of booking it as fast as I possibly could. As soon as we arrived topside, we hear the bunker explode beneath us. We fail all of the brotherhood of steel quests, and we see thick black smoke, pouring out of the bunker's ventilation system. We can only hope that Veronica made it out okay. With the brotherhood destroyed, we can head back to Kizar, but before we do, we need a companion. I dismissed Veronica, she probably wouldn't like to hang out with me now, so heading on over to free side, we can snag Arcade Ganon. No particular reason why, I just like his plasma pistol, but really, I can't think of a companion better for our Kizar's Legion playthrough than Arcade Ganon, who's incredibly vocal about his hatred of Kizar's Legion. With Arcade in tow, we can head back to Kizar. As the brotherhood been destroyed, now Kizar wasn't in a state to answer any questions when we last saw him, he could barely form thoughts into words. So we'll take the opportunity now to talk about the brotherhood. Kizar, was it really necessary to destroy the brotherhood? If I say the brotherhood should be destroyed, it's necessary. My Legion can win a fight against the brotherhood of steel, but it would be costly. Your job is to make sure there's no brotherhood for us to fight. What do you think of the brotherhood of steel? The worst impulses of mankind concentrated in one insane backward tribe. The brotherhood seems to have formed not long after the Great Atomic War. It's hard to know. They care little for history. Some of the brotherhood scribes we captured further east didn't even know the name of their founder, Roger Maxson. They like to pretty up their mission with trappings of chivalry, but the truth is they're hoarders. They hoard technology. It's been 200 years and they still have the mentality of scavengers. They say they're preserving these technologies, but for what? They have no vision. They offer no future. They're a dead end. Well, how's Kizar have at least that in common? Couldn't you use the brotherhood to your advantage? You don't think very far ahead, do you? Sure. Their hatred of the NCR would seem to qualify them for uses, proxies, but then what do you do with them? Each pallidance is quite powerful. I'd have to be convinced that present benefits outweighed future costs. Hey, I think we should talk about your health. Take care of the brotherhood. Maybe then we can have a conversation. Seriously, let's talk about your health. I said take care of the brotherhood. Then we talk. Maybe. Oh, for the first time he sounds at least open to talking about it. All right, Kizar, well you'll be happy to know that I've destroyed the brotherhood of Steel's bunker in Hidden Valley. Very well. This latest victory brings to a close my efforts to reshape the power balance of the Mojave and not a minute too soon. I want you to join me in my intent. You and I are going to have a private conversation. Kizar stands and enters his tent. Despite wanting a private conversation, Lucius remains at the strategy table. Perhaps Lucius already knows what Kizar is about to say. Sitting down next to the dictator, he sadly doesn't offer us a drink. All right, let's state the obvious. There's something wrong with me. The headaches started a couple of months ago. They weren't too bad at first, but now they come frequently and they're debilitating. For the past two weeks my left leg has been dragging. It's stiffer, hard to move. And you've seen me blank out. Lucius says I stare into space, blink a few times, and keep talking like nothing happened. So what's the diagnosis? Oh, well, I mean, I'm no doctor. You should probably be talking to somebody else. Answer the question. Okay. We can pass a difficult speech check of 60 to say, oh, this is a straightforward case of intracranial blastoma fibralosis. I'm not familiar with that condition. Is it treatable? Or we can pass a slightly easier medicine check of 50 to say I'm afraid your symptoms are consistent with the brain lesion, most likely a tumor. I figured as much. Congratulations. You just became my personal physician. Do you have what you need to treat my condition? Ah, okay then. I guess my name is now Doc Courier. We can pass a speech check of 65 to say it's a simple procedure as brain surgeries go. Then go find some proper surgical tools. The medications from a doctor's bag might come in handy too. I'll make sure you're allowed to bring the necessary medications into the camp. Hurry back. I don't know how long I've got. Or a much more difficult medicine check of 75 to say I can perform the surgery, but I'll need proper tools and supplies from a doctor's bag. Then gather those items together and hurry back to perform the operation. I don't know how long I've got. Performing the surgery is only one of many ways to go about this. We could say, what about that auto-doc in your tent? It's never had a functional diagnostic scanning module. Without that, it's useless for surgery. Where would I find a diagnostic scanning module? It's been said that the auto-docs were standard equipment in the underground vaults where a man can survive when the bombs fell centuries ago. You can search the vaults, but every auto-doc my legion has run across, has been stripped for parts long before we found it. Some of my scouts did report an abandoned vault near Nellis Air Force Base. Overrun by ghouls, they said. Maybe the infestation has been there long enough to keep scavengers out. Why don't you go see? All right, I'll see what I can find out. Do that and try not to take too long. With that our conference ends, and now we head out to find Kizar's cure. We'll start by trying the first method of gathering surgical tools and a doctor's bag. We can collect these items anyway we wish. We'll find them all over the majave, but the easiest way to get everything we need is to travel to the new vegas medical clinic. Here we find a doctor for the followers of the apocalypse named Dr. Usanagi. She has the surgical tools we need, but they're really expensive, costing 1,000 to 111 caps. She also sells a doctor bag so we can snag one from her while we're here, but if we don't want to spend the caps on the surgical tools, we can steal some. Heading into her surgery room we can explore the place, we see that there's an auto dock here. It looks a lot like the one in Kizar's tent, but it's different. This is an ancient and very obsolete Mark I auto dock. Despite the similarities and appearance to more advanced models, it shares no compatible parts. Ah, and here I thought it was going to make my jubbies easy for me. Looks like we have to go elsewhere to make the auto dock work, but as for the surgical tools, we find some inside a first aid box, though we do have to steal it. Obtaining the surgical tools and doctor's bag completes the subjective of the quest, or we can go the auto dock route, but to do so we have to travel to Vault 34. The vault is swarming with geckos and ghouls. I already did a video telling the story of this vault that you can watch here, but to find the tools, we head to the level above the atrium, go down some stairs, and then walk into the atrium where we find a hole in the floor. If we hop down this floor, we find ourselves in a small ghoul infested room. On this level we need to find the clinic to do so, head out of the room, and turn left. Then we follow this hallway for quite some time until we round a corner and find the clinic. Inside the clinic we have to kill a couple more ghouls, and when clear, here we find a broken mark 3 auto dock. This is a mark 3 auto dock, primarily used for routine surgeries. The control systems have been damaged beyond repair, rendering the auto dock useless, but the diagnostic scanning unit is still intact. We can simply take the diagnostic scanning unit. With the unit in hand, we can leave the vault and head back to the fort. But when we arrive at Khaizar's tent... Khaizar sleeps, but doesn't awaken. I fear it is only a matter of days before death claims him. You will answer to me until such a time as Khaizar is able to resume leadership. If Khaizar dies, who takes over the Legion? Legged Lanus will take Khaizar's place at the head of the Legion. The legged is a fine warrior, and the Legion will do well under his command. Heading inside we see that Khaizar's throne is vacant. Moving into his bedroom, we find him lying in bed. Here lies one of the most notorious and feared people in all of the Mahave Westland. How many NCR spies and assassins have worked for years to get themselves into the very position where we now stand. As Khaizar's physician, we could get away with murder. Kama toast Khaizar. Khaizar is in a coma and is near death. Only an operation to remove the tumor from his brain will save him. You have both a set of surgical tools and a doctor's bag. Whether it'll be enough to save Khaizar's life, however, remains to be seen. To perform the surgery, we need a medicine skill of 75 or greater. If we do, we can simply perform the operation. I thank you for saving my life. You're a warrior and a healer. A rare combination. I trust this payment is adequate compensation for your troubles. Now, unless we go sentimental here. And bringing us back to business, Khaizar gives us 10 Legion Arii and immediately fills us in on our next task. Another option is to pass a very difficult luck check, which requires 9 luck or more. I thank you for saving my life. And just like last time, we save his life. If we save Khaizar's life, many of the characters we've met in the fort will talk about it. I'm pleased that you were able to cure Khaizar's malady. Though the legate is a fine leader, we yet need the wisdom of Khaizar to guide the Legion. I had hoped to become a great doctor like you someday. I'm sure you had to use a lot of healing powder on Khaizar. Well done. You're helping the Legion, a Slaving Army that will almost certainly kill and enslave the majority of people in New Vegas. What? Did you expect me to applaud your efforts to support a deranged warlord? Caesar is bad. You are bad for helping him. Please stop. But of course, we could always arrange for Khaizar to die during surgery. Khaizar is dead. At your hands, this crime cannot go unpunished. And the grief stricken Lucius threatens to punish us. We now have to talk our way out of this. We could say, let's finish this then. Avenge Khaizar! But this has us fighting Lucius and all of the Praetorian Guard. Or even the wee murdered him, we can lie and say, I did all I could to save him. Yet you failed. And you must pay. We can then pass a 50 medicine check to say the cranial bleeding was too much for a man of his age. A younger man would have lived. I apologize for my rash action. I understand fighting and killing, not healing. I acted out of grief and loyalty. Or we can pass a 50 speech check to say, Khaizar would have died if I didn't try to help him. How dare you blame me for trying to save his life? What you say is true. I apologize for my rash action. It was out of grief and loyalty. I hope you understand. You need me more than I need you. Don't forget it. We'll see about that. Let's move on then. Yes. We can't let Khaizar's death get in the way of the Legion's goals. Apology accepted Lucius. Khaizar's death is regrettable. But we can't let it stand in the way of the Legion's goals. Now that Khaizar is dead, will you become the Legion's second in command? Legitla Neus has not chosen anyone to be his second yet. It would be an honor to be selected though. And then Lucius goes on to give us the same quest that Khaizar would have given us. Not much changes in terms of gameplay if Khaizar dies. After all, we are close to the end of the game, with only a few tasks left to accomplish before the end. However, his death significantly impacts the endings of the game. I'll be sure to cover both options. The ending slides if he lives and the ending slides if he dies in the last episode of the series. If Caesar dies, many of the people we've met in the fort have something to say about it. This is a moment I'd hoped would not come for many years. Khaizar's death puts the Legitla Neus in command now. And does that worry you? Leneus served Khaizar well as his greatest battlefield commander. With Leneus at the head of the Legion, however, I doubt he'll have much use for my services. He prefers direct methods. It'll be strange not having Khaizar in command, but Legitla Neus is a strong leader. Khaizar was a great man, but the Legion will become even greater with Legitla Neus at his head. With Khaizar dead, I'm afraid for the women. The Legit is a brutal man and he enjoys inflicting pain. I've heard some bad stories about this Legit. I'm not sure I'll be welcome around here once he takes charge. Alternatively, with the diagnostic scanning module in hand from Vault 34, we can install it into Khaizar's Mark III Autodoc, but the Autodoc doesn't work on its own. We have to program it. So once the unit is installed, we can activate it again and choose one of three options. We can leave it alone or we can activate Surgery Mode to remove Khaizar's tumor. I thank you for saving my life. The Autodoc module you recovered did the trick. And then it's back to business with Khaizar. Or we can activate Autopsy Mode and kill Khaizar. I don't understand. The machine was supposed to cure Khaizar. You did this. His blood is on your hands. And we find all the same dialogue options with Lucius that we found when we killed him last time. But there is another way. If we have arcade Ganon as a companion, we find an option to say, Khaizar, one of my companions arcade has medical expertise. You could take him as a slave. And where is this arcade? He is standing right outside your tent. I'll have my guards take him captive. If he cures my condition, I'll see to it that your reward is several times his value. And with that, we permanently lose arcade as a companion. And we lose his companion perk. Just like last time Khaizar gets up and walks to his throne. But as we leave, we see arcade Ganon walking inside Khaizar's tent. He moves on over to the dining area to the left and takes a seat. Hey there! Was it always your plan to sell me into slavery to Caesar? Or was that a spur of the moment thing? Hey arcade, are you enjoying your stay? In the words of Socrates, go fornicate yourself. But I thought you were interested in preserving life. I know I shouldn't place one life below another, but in Caesar's case, I'll make an exception. The whole slavery and cultural annihilation stands he's adopted is a bit repugnant to me. Though I guess what I think never really mattered much to you, did it? The world needs Khaizar more than it needs you. We trick Khaizar's placoid said week the Catoni. Goodbye, courier. Oh, the way he said that just kind of broke my heart right there. I did a video on arcade Ganon. You can watch it here if you're interested. And we get to know him really well. He's a fascinating character. The way he said goodbye courier right there just kills you a little bit inside. The Latin that he spoke there, We trick Khaizar's placoid said week the Catoni. Can be translated the winning cause pleased the gods, but the lost cause pleased Kato. It's a quote from the Roman epic poem, Farsalia by the poet Lucan. The epic poem covers the civil war between Julius Khaizar, Julius Caesar, and the Roman senate who fielded forces led by Pompeii the Great. The senate and Pompeii lost that civil war, and Khaizar won with Pompeii's loss and the senate's failure. Kato the younger, a senator at the time, takes over leadership of the senate's forces. Rasmussen depicts every character in his Farsalia, as being ultimately flawed, including both Khaizar and Pompeii, he depicts Kato as a Roman stoic ideal, as a man of common sense and reasonableness in a world gone mad. Even outside the epic poem, historians remember Kato the younger for his integrity. Even though he was a member of the Roman senate, he was well known at the time for being immune to bribes. He was outspoken in his distaste of political corruption. He disliked immorality and tried to live a moral life by following the stoic philosophy. Therefore, to earn the respect and admiration of a man like Kato is to be more highly valued than earning the respect of the gods, the gods which were incredibly immoral, petulant, unpredictable. The gods who don't care about goodness, but instead only care about winning. Since publication, this quote has often been used by the supporters of lost causes. The idea goes that winning the war, winning the battle, will please the gods, the gods are only interested in the winner. For after all, as Khaizar himself said earlier in the series, losers are just the footnotes of history. But when Luchen says that the lost caused pleased Kato, supporters of lost causes who reference this quote, often recognize that they lost their cause has been defeated. But despite that, they retain their dignity and their goodness because their cause was the right cause. By using this well-known quote from Luchen's farcelia, Arcade Ganon is admitting defeat, but still trying to cling to the dignity of his lost cause. No matter what option we choose, we cannot last a learn of our next task from Khaizar. I thank you for saving my life. Arcade will be a fine addition to my retinue. I trust this payment is adequate compensation for your trouble. Now, unless we go sentimental here, the time for battle will soon be upon us. Lagotus Leneos draws nigh. When he arrives, my legion will assault Hoover Dam. In the meantime, the proflikets have prepared a welcome gift for us. The president of the NCR intends to visit Hoover Dam. Won't killing President Kimball just anger the NCR? I don't have to explain the reasoning behind my commands. I just give them and you do them. That said, every once in a while, I hear something so ignorant I have to respond. This is one of those times. The proflikets morale is in the shitter. They've occupied the Mahabhi for years, getting picked off one by one. They were told it'd be easy. They keep being told that victory is right around the corner, that Vegas will roll over, become the sixth state of their little union. It's President Kimball who's been telling them that. When he dies, the enormity of his lies will come crashing down the punchline to a bad joke. Tasty guys are tasty. What's your opinion of President Kimball anyway? A man of potential held back by the craving political context he inhabits. You realize he was a general? They hear of the Mahabhi they called him. A tidily earned by extarpating lesser tribes that dared attack NCR citizens. His responses were swift and draconian. President Tandy, the founding mother, cobbled hostile tribes. But her successors were less naïve so they gave Kimball free reign. And after a respectable military career, what does he do? Become a politician. Isn't it natural for someone like Kimball to seek greater power? But he did so by election. What better way to stunt the growth of leaders? Not to mention whole cultures. A leader shouldn't have to cow-tow to those who serve him. With so much energy wasted on those below, how is he ever to move forward? Had he taken the government by force, used his army to stage a coup, things would be very different. I'll just have to do it for him. How will the insur-react to Kimball's death? Won't it just anger them? It'll frighten them. If I can reach out and kill whomever I choose, then they know the only reason they're alive is I haven't tried yet. You have to understand that Kimball is a symbol. Without him, there would be no NCR occupation of the Mahabhi. He mustered the troops. As many as his senate would allow and sent them in. All the right reasons done all the wrong ways. Any invasion by a democracy is a half measure. When Kimball dies, the NCR will recoil from the Mahabhi and from his legacy. By the time they recover and try to strike back, I'll be invading them. All right, Kazar, I'll kill President Kimball for you. That's what I like to hear. One of my Fruentarius set up camp near Hoover Dam. His name is Kato Hostileus. Go, Dan. He'll have further instructions. And with that, we must now meet Kato Hostileus, a Fruentarius spy camped out near Hoover Dam. When we last went through this for Mr. House, we took great care to prevent President Kimball's assassination. You can watch that video by clicking here, but this time we are the assassin. We'll continue with the quest Arizona Killer and explore every way to assassinate President Kimball in tomorrow's episode. I publish many videos every single week here on my channel, so if you don't want to miss the next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. I have a brand new shirt in the shop. The Profligate's days are numbered. This handsome portrait comes in a variety of both men's and women's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can also find the design on a bunch of other products, smartphone cases, mugs, posters, pillows, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, where you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming one of my patrons on Patreon. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you tomorrow morning bright and early for the next episode.