In our last episode, we completed every task given to us by Louis Salvatore, later of the Salvatore crime family in New Reno. We explored what would happen if we chose to become a made man with Louis Salvatore, but knowing that siding with one family makes enemies of all the others, we reloaded a previous save before we made our final decision to explore some of the other families of New Reno. Next on the list is the Bishop Family. The Bishop Family runs the Shark Club. We were sent here by a man in Vault City named Thomas Moore to deliver a mysterious briefcase to the leader of the Bishop Family, John Bishop. Heading inside, we find slot machines and roulette tables. The guards are their typical friendly selves, saying things like scram tribal, and we see Casino patrons milling about. Moving into the next room, we find the bar. The bartender sells a typical selection of booze and kems. We find a comedian performing behind a cage. Verdebirds? He says, but the crowd is not impressed. Verde, what? What the hell is this guy talking about? How about those little bags of peanuts they serve on flights? How about that Salama you get, sir? What's up with that? Optional traits? You know, like jinx? Anybody seen these lately? Anybody seen your pencil, net lately? Do you think that there's anyone who says, Hey, I think I want more critical failures. Who are these people? Hey, I've heard that one somewhere before. Mole rats? Oh boy. What's up with these things? Are they moles? Or are they rats? And what are pig rats? What's up with that? Oh yeah, what's up with that? Rad scorpions? What's so rad about them? It's short for radiation, jerk face. Who are these people who think that mutated scorpions are so rad? You suck! Super mutants? Does this jerk whatever stop telling these stupid jokes? What's so super about them? When was the last time you saw a super mutant? Get a cat out of a tree! Never! No, why? I... Ugghh! Ugghh! Because super mutants don't rescue cats. They kill mercilessly. Where's someone who'd kill you, Mercerville Lumble? So who calls them super mutants? Who are these people? Probably the same idiot who hired you. So there was this prostitute, right? This stupid slut. Your mom's a slut? Slat? I'm going to stab you to death after the show. And uh... She goes right, she goes, Is that a gecko in your pocket? Or are you just uh... horny? You suck! Whoa! Whoa! Uh... Did I mention it was a fire breathing gecko? Hahaha! Hahaha! Hahaha! Gecko ghouls! Right? Ghoulsman! Do they stink? You stink! This guy should only be on Saturday nights! Uh... So uh... ghouls, right? They smell bad! So like uh... Did I mention ghouls stink? Uh... So I find this ghoul, right? And ask, Are you guys envious that I don't stink? He goes, No! Uh... Why do you ask? I said, Because you're green! Uh... Green with envy? Get it? You suck! Whoa! Whoa! This comedian's entire act of course is a reference to the comedic stylings of Jerry Seinfeld. What's the deal with airplane peanuts? Yeah, sure! Come on! Hey kids! What's the deal with homework? You're not working on your home? What's the deal with lab shades? I mean if it's a lamp, Why do you want shade? And once with people getting sick... Yeah, yeah, yeah! I mean what's the deal with cancer? I have cancer! Tough crowd! After enjoying the act, We can pass through a doorway guarded by two rough looking bodyguards. And we find a couple of empty bathrooms And we can go backstage. There are a number of desks and containers here but they're all empty. We can go out onto the stage where the guy is still performing but he is too busy doing his routine to talk right now. When we're done back here, we can head up a nearby staircase. We arrive at what appears to be a residential level for the Bishop family's thugs. We see a woman in a tight black dress standing in the room to the left. She plays an important role in this story but to properly tell it, we need to come back and visit with her later. Then moving south on the hallway, we bump into a woman who says, you come here. Now, she also has a prominent role in this story but we'll stop by to have a chat with her later. Instead, we can quickly peek into each of these rooms. You know who I am? I'm one of the Bishop's men. Now buzz off! I don't feel like chatting. Beat it! Friendly chaps these... Bishops. If we are foolish enough to try to loot these containers, now they do turn hostile and without warning. There are a few containers here that are not guarded. In the southernmost room, we find a number of containers but they're all empty. Heading out, we find a small room to the right, just above the staircase. Inside, we find three un-guarded bookshelves and one, we find a 10-millimeter pistol, a 10-millimeter SMG, some 10-millimeter ammunition, and some 44-magnum ammunition. In the next, we find a shotgun, and some shotgun shells. And in the final one, a lighter, some rope, and three Molotov cocktails. Heading south by two guards guarding the staircase, we find a billiard room. There's a door to the north, and inside, we find three more un-guarded bookshelves. In the first, we find a coil of rope, a lighter, two frag grenades, and some dynamite. This dynamite will become important later, so we'll save it. In the second one, we find a knife, and two pieces of leather armor. And in the third one, we find a desert eagle, some 44-ammunition, a revolver, and some 45-caliber ammunition. Heading into the billiard room, if we inspect the pool table, we find a magic eight-ball. This black spear is some strange pre-cognitive device. A small window on the top seems to be able to predict the future. Pre-war humanity must have been geniuses to invent such a wonder. It weighs one pound. We can roll this magic eight-ball to learn its wisdom. If we have low luck, we'll read things like, my sources say, no. Please wipe your hands before shaking me again. Ask again later. It is certain. I'm getting sick. Closed by order of RPG board. Concentrate and ask again. Reply hazy. Try again. Better not to tell you now. My reply is no. Outlook not so good. As I see it, yes. Temporarily out of service. Yes, definitely. Cannot predict now. Very doubtful. It is certain. You have a strong right arm. Stop shaking me so hard. It hurts. Don't count on it. Your hands are warm. You may rely on it. Yes. Most likely. Science point. Yes. Keep shaking me. And there'll be trouble. But if our luck is high, it will sometimes tell us a secret. Some of the secrets that chairs are as follows. Your score is 23 out of 100. You have quite a ways to go yet. Okay. Looks like this series won't be ending anytime soon. You need high strength and endurance to have a chance of beating Francis in the arm wrestling competition. This is the arm wrestling competition we went over in my video on Broken Hills. It's important to win. Because if we lose, we become Francis's, um, you know, toy. Go back and talk to Father Tully in New Reno after you have finished the game. Oh. All right, we'll do just that. If you sell Bessie to the Butchers and Modoc, you can set her free again. With the feuding couple in Broken Hills, the wife really did throw the cat's paw in the trash. Fergus was against putting me in the game. He's a big meanie. Look in the first floor men's bathroom toilet in the Mordino Casino in New Reno. I went to the bathroom to try and find it, but it wasn't there. I checked the toilet, I checked the urinal, I went to the women's restroom and checked there too. I couldn't find the secret. I read that we're supposed to find one plasma grenade, one frag grenade, and one pulse grenade. But I just couldn't find it in my game save. Your luck is very high. Keep shaking me for clues. The code to activate the first terminal in the Vault In Vault City is 3PC F-186. We already covered this in my video on Vault 8 that you can watch here. Somebody buried some cash beneath the cross-labeled trash in Golgotha, which we already covered in my video on Golgotha. Scott Evans sighs a lot when he sees how many inventory items are in the game. There is an Easter egg somewhere in New Reno. An Easter egg we already found. Yes, we know Decenta Under Mountain was crap. This is a reference to Interplay's 1997 game Decent to Under Mountain. It was poorly received upon release, had innumerable bugs, a horrible AI, and even by the standards of 1997 had shoddy graphics. Pay attention to what Curtis says after you return Mr. Nixon doll to him in Vault City. And we already covered that in my video on Vault City. Heading to the staircase, we can talk to the two guards. What do you want, pal? Make it quick, they say. I'm here to see Mr. Bishop we can say. No, says the guard. I know Mr. Bishop's schedule, and you ain't on it. If we press our luck by saying he's expecting me, tell him I'm here. He'll say, all right, pal, what's your name? I'll check with the boss. The top two options give us the same result. You don't need to see my name, we can say just let me in. Boy, you are one stupid son of a gun, aren't you? Look, get out of here before we beat the rest of your brains out of here. We have one final chance to back away, but if we press our luck and say, let me pass, he says, dipstick, you just earned yourself a ticket to a world of hurt. The chosen one can go silent, brace ourselves, and get ready to do some damage. With that, they turn hostile. To avoid having Bishop's men turn hostile, we have to approach them with Thomas Moore's briefcase in our inventory. With the briefcase in our inventory, we find a new option to say, I'm here to see Mr. Bishop. I have a suitcase for him from Mr. Moore. And the guard steps away for a moment, opens a panel on one of the walls, and whispers something. He waits for a minute, listens, and then turns back to you in shrugs. He says you can head on up. All right, we can say. Heading up the stairs, we find ourselves in a dimly lit room. It's filled with guards, and standing by a pool table is none other than John Bishop. He studies us. Even under all that get-up, you still look like one of them tribals. And he snorts. The boy said you got a briefcase for me. From a mutual acquaintance, let's see it. As with the other crying bosses in New Reno, if we play Koi, if we're rude, if we're not honest with him, they quickly turn hostile. So we'll just say, here you go. He opens the briefcase, checks the contents, and then snaps the case shut. It's from Moore, all right? Says you check out tribal. Lucky for you, and he smiles. You come in here with a bad rep, and you're asking for a quick trip to the sky. I'm curious, we can say. What's in the briefcase? And he says, hold your horses, tribal. I have some questions for you first. He studies us. So where do you know more from? He trying to play politics amongst the tribals now? Ha! That boy missed his colon. I met him in Vault City, we can say, spread in the word. I offered to help him out by delivering this briefcase to you. Heh. Damn human of you, he says. For all his preaching, old Tomcat Moore can't seem to step off his soapbox long enough to actually do any legwork. Heh. Still, I don't make him any different from any other NCR, boy. Yeah, well, says the chosen one. At some point, the work's gonna be done, and they call me to make sure things get delivered, like that briefcase. And then Jong Biship talks to himself, of course, being able to whip a crowd into a frenzy ain't too bad if you're going into politics. And he studies us suspiciously. You ain't NCR too, are ya? Tomcats about the only one of them I can stand for the moment. And we have to answer this question honestly, if we want to work with Mr. Biship. No, we can say I'm just a traveler. I agreed to help Moore out because I needed work. And Jong Biship nods at the case. Well, this briefcase was worth it, he says. A little slice of old city inside. Some of that precious tech, that frigid cowlinette doesn't want to part with. But hey, tribal, I ain't Pagia yet. Here's your cut. And with that, we earn 500 experience and our negotiated price. Say, says the chosen one, I don't have any other jobs lined up at the moment. Do you have any work for me? He checks us out for a moment, and the nods. Yeah, I got a job for ya. I have this problem down south in NCR. This fella, Weston, has a big mouth that needs to be shot permanently. Half a grand, easy money. No problem, says the chosen one. This Weston is as good as dead. Hold on, says Jong Biship. I ain't finished telling you everything yet. I want this guy dead, but it can't look like he was aced. Don't put a bullet in his skull. Don't stab him to death. Don't do anything that smells of a hit. Because... Because that's the way it has to be done. You piss off anyone down there. Make them think that I had anything to do with that son of a gun kicking the bucket. And I'll make sure no one can identify your corpse. How the hell am I supposed to whack somebody and not make it look like a murder? The chosen one can say... That's your problem, tribal. Not mine, says Jong Biship. Do some mumbo jumbo. Mix up some poisonous plants. And slip it into a drink. Choke him in his sleep. Push him off a building. I don't care. Just so it doesn't look like a hit. You want me to make it look like an accident, eh? Then I need to know more about this, Weston. Hmm, says Jong Biship. All right, fair enough. What do you need to know? Where can I find this guy we can ask? I don't want to have to haunt his ass down when I get to NCR. He's got a ranch in NCR, says Biship. Follow the Brahman Stink. And you should find it without too much trouble. This guy got any kin, any family we can ask. Any witnesses I got a worry about? No kids, no wife, no family to speak of, says Biship. There might be some ranch hands, but they shouldn't be too much trouble. Say, wait a minute, ranch hands we can say? Are they armed? And how many is some? Probably armed, says Jong Biship. And as for a headcount, I haven't got one. I know he's got workers, and there's most likely more than one, dealing with them's your problem. Tribal. All right, we can say. That's good enough to go on. Weston is a dead man. All right, says John. And one more time in case I ain't made myself crystal clear. It's got to look like an accident, or it's no good. I heard you the first time. I'll be back after Weston has had his... accident. All right then, says Biship. I expect to hear from you soon. And remember, tribal. You don't know me, and we never had this conversation. Word gets out, and I'll put you down. Don't worry about me, Biship, we can say. You just make sure you got that cash waiting for me when I get back. Now we need to head to NCR to kill this Weston character. But before we do, and since we're here, we can talk with the two women we saw on the lower floor. Heading into the room to the left, we can at last talk with that woman in the tight black dress. The woman turns to face you. She is quite attractive, with a low cut dress made out of a gold gecko skin. Oh, okay, I guess it's supposed to be a gold dress. She studies you for a moment, then frowns. Yes, what is it? Who are you, we can ask? And she raises an eyebrow. I think I should be the one asking that question. She crosses her arms. I am Leslie and Biship. My husband is the head of the Biship family here in New Reno. And you are? A man named is Oxhorn, we can say. And she says, Oxhorn. So, Oxhorn, what pretell do you think I can do for you? Can you tell me about Mr. Biship we can ask? My husband? He is the head of the Biship family. In matters of diplomacy, business, and criminal pursuits, he possesses a certain animal cunning that one cannot help but admire. However, contemptible his other qualities. Now we learned in a previous episode that Biship is the reason that Raiders have been attacking Vault City. And we can mention this to Mrs. Biship. Yes, we can say. His tactic of hiring those Raiders to lean on Vault City seems to be pretty effective. Oh, yes, she says. My husband's well thought out attempted forcing others to accept his gesture of good will. I had rather hoped those Raiders had been incinerated by Vault City's laser cannons. Gesture of good will we can ask? And she says, yes. His initial offer of an alliance were refused. So he reiterated his peaceful intentions by using violence to drive Vault City into submission. Through an intermediary, of course. With high enough intelligence, we find an option to say, well, I was wondering about that. Wouldn't Vault City turn to someone else for help? Like NCR? Rather than agree to join with Biship? And she smirks. Well, aren't you a sharp one? So do you know what Biship has planned? And she frowns. No, should I? And she studies you carefully then smirks. You certainly do ask a lot of dangerous questions about my husband's business. I'd be very careful if I were you. Thanks for the advice we can say. I had some other safer questions. What are his other qualities, we can say? And she frowns. I'll leave that to your imagination. And then she looks irritated. Is that all? Can you tell me about the Biship family? And she says, there really is nothing to say about the Biship family. Oh, there is the extended family of hired thugs, mercenaries, horrors, pushers, and slaves. But that is really all that the Biship family amounts to. It sounds as if your marriage life isn't as healthy as it could be, we can say. And she says, no. My husband is in the business of accumulating power that seldom leaves room for anything else. In addition, my precious daughter has quickly learned what being a woman means a new reno. Your daughter, we can ask? Yes, my daughter, Angela. She has become quite the little tramp. She smiles rooffully, like mother, like daughter, and she sighs in irritation. Now, is that all she says? Have you ever heard of a place called Vault 13, we can ask? And she says, I know a vault city to the northeast. Is that the place you're referring to? Ah, no. Wrong place we can say. She says, well, then, I'm afraid that I can't help you. Well, do you know where I could find something called the Garden of Eden creation kit? And she says, I know where you could find A creation kit, but it'll do you a little good. It's already been used. Where is this Garden of Eden creation kit we can say? And she smiles faintly as if remembering something pleasant. Have you ever been to Vault City? It is northeast of New Reno. They had such a kit once, long ago, but they used it when they left their vault for the surface. Can you tell me about Vault City we can ask? And her smile fades. Then her expression becomes hard and distant. There is not much to tell, she says. I think you'll find the climate there. Different. Now is that all? Yes, we can say. I'd better be going. Hold on a moment, she says, and then she studies us. You seem to be new, in town. Would you care to join me for a drink in my chambers? We can discuss New Reno. It's a dangerous place to those unfamiliar with its ways. We have a number of ways to respond, which either causes us to reject her or accept her advances. We'll play it slow for now. Sure we can say, a drink would be welcome. She nods and smiles. Very well. Follow me. And we can follow her. We arrive upstairs in her bedroom. We join Mrs. Bishop for a drink in her chambers. We talk for a while, then she comes over and starts caressing us. Look, I really should be going, Mrs. Bishop. Oh, she says, where do you have to go right now? She responds the same way to the first and last response. Anywhere we can say, and she says, you try and leave this room and I'll scream for the guards. We can say, I just want you to know that this is wrong. And if I had stronger moral fiber, I'd give you a stern lecture. Now, come here. And the screen fades to black. Or we can say, all things considered, I'm probably safer with the guards. Goodbye. And she screams guards and intruder. Thief! Guards! Intruder in the penthouse. And the chosen one can say, duck, gun, and I hate this game. Mrs. Bishop runs out of the room and the guards race in at attack. Our only way out is to say, I have to meet jewels by the front for a special transaction. And she says, fine, if you won't sleep with me this time, I want you to know that you can come and see me anytime you want. And we'll make some kind of arrangement. Do you understand what I said? Yes, says the chosen one, now let me out. We both leave the room and Mrs. Bishop escorts us out. We both descend back to the second floor. Phew, says the chosen one. Or if we're not squeamish with a little bit of adultery, with the wife of one of the strongest men in this city, we can get to it. The screen goes dark and we make love. It's not the best, it's not the greatest. But for a brief moment in our turbulent lives, we and Mrs. Bishop forget the cares of the world and lose ourselves in each other. Incidentally, if we have the sex spirit and even jiggleaux titles, this paragraph is a bit different. Instead, we read that passionate love-making commences. At the end of our sexual marathon, Mrs. Bishop curls up against us, smiling contently. Oxhorn, she says, you are the man. And then she shivers. That thing you do with your tongue was, but the chosen one says, ah, look, just in case someone is watching us from above right now and listening to everything we say and do, let's keep some secrets to ourselves. Instead, let's indulge in some distracting pillow talk. Mrs. Bishop sighs contentedly and stretches. We have an opportunity here to ask her a few more questions. However, the number of questions we can ask her directly correspond to how well we performed in the sack. If our character doesn't have the sex spirit or jiggleaux title, if he's never been with many ladies of the evening, then we can only get her to answer one question before she falls asleep. If, however, our character is experienced in the ways of the world, we can hold her attention for much longer. And she can answer two, three, or even all of our questions. We'll start by asking her to again tell us about her husband. But Mrs. Bishop frowns slightly and pulls the sheet tighter around her body. Must we talk about him? Let's not ruin the mood. I really want to know we can say. Tell me about him. I assure you, John and I have no love for each other. What small fraction existed has degenerated into a healthy amount of spite? He has his women. And I have my pleasures. Surely you two must still love each other we can say, even if a little. The only love we have consists of his forcing his way into my bedroom and mounting me like a drunken brahman. And that is perhaps his least contemptible quality, considering his other pursuits. Other pursuits we can ask. And again she frowns. Again saying, I'll leave that to your imagination. Can we please drop it? Let's talk about something else. All right, well, what's the deal with him and these raiders I've been hearing about? And she rolls over. John sent some mercenaries east near Vault City to lean on the city. Wants to try and apply pressure on him, make them beg and CR for help. beg and CR for help? Why? Hmm, oh, well. And she turns over. John promised and CR he'd give Vault City to them. So we sent out some of his men, told him to act like raiders until Vault City caved. Do you know where these raiders are we can ask? No. John probably has a map of their location somewhere around here. She sniffes slightly and rubs her nose. Uh, is there any proof of this anywhere? And she says, I don't know. Maybe John's safe in his room? He prefers keeping meticulous records for blackmail purposes. If our character has high enough repair and trap skill, here we find an option to say, want me to kill him? No. She rolls over and mumbles in her sleep. Don't be an idiot. Soon as people find out, you'll be on the run for the rest of your short life. But we can say, what if people don't know it was me? She stirs and blinks. What are you talking about? Don't talk foolish. I don't know. We can say maybe a trap or something that looks like an accident? Her eyes snap open. His safe, she says. He has explosive setup to it if it's tampered with. Only if you enter a certain combination is it safe. Of course, if that combination was changed, fixed without his knowledge, and the chosen one gets it. Hmm, he says, maybe if I repaired the lock on his safe, it's something to keep in mind. Say we can say, I had some other questions. But if our character wasn't good in the sack, our question is met with silence. Mrs. Bishop has fallen asleep. We can't help but wonder if she would have stayed awake longer if we'd been more skilled. But we quickly repressed the thought before it hurts our ego, and we can slip out of bed quietly. But assuming our character was able to keep the attention of Mrs. Bishop, we can ask her to tell us about her family. And here we have the same conversation we had with her downstairs, with one big difference. After sleeping with her, we find an option to say, you sound unhappy. You should leave here. Go somewhere else. Why? What a brilliant idea, she says sarcastically. And where would I go? Into the wastes to live amongst the savages. South to NCR. Northwest to Reading to rent my body to minors. Why is leaving Reno so impossible? We can say, you're not a stupid woman. I would think that you could pick up any trade you put your mind to. I leave, she says, and my husband will bring me back. The family watches out for their own, whether they want to be watched or not. And that's as far as we can talk with her about this topic for now. In a little bit, a new window of opportunity opens up from Mrs. Bishop. So we'll sleep with her again in the future and explore that opportunity a little bit later. Next we can say, you're not from New Reno. Are you Mrs. Bishop? You talk differently than a lot of people around here. No, she says, I don't talk like everyone around here. It's called an education. And she rolls over. Go to sleep. Where could I get an education we can ask? And she yawns. You're already as smart as I want you to be. Now go to sleep. If you're pumping me for information, then you're creating a deficit. A deficit here in the bed? I did not, says the chosen one defensively. And if our character has high enough perception, we find an option to say, are you from Vault City? And she cracks open one eye. Who told you that? I guess after I heard you talk about Vault City, you got this nostalgic look in your eye. Her expression crumbles for a moment. Then she rolls over so we can't see her. Don't mention that place. What happened, we can ask? John happened. I used to live there. He visited once. I was pleasantly charmed because he was so rough, I guess. Different from most Vault citizens. Oh, of course he let me try this little thing called Jett. Uh oh, we can say. Jett's illegal in Vault City, of course. The other citizens found out and revoked my citizenship. John was the only one I could turn to. He knew that, of course. He planned the whole thing. So you got your education in Vault City? That's why you sound so different from everyone else in New Reno, we can say. They had memory enhancers for the Pip Boys there, she says. Had dictionaries and encyclopedia stored on them. Took one of the lingual enhancers when I left, though I don't know why. Where is this enhancer we can ask? She yons and then curls up. It's in my safe. Not much use without a Pip Boy though. Don't know why I still keep it. Can I have it? We can ask. And she shrugs. Sure if you want them. Combination is 86, 76, 80. The enhancer is in a compartment in the bottom of the safe. A thief isn't gonna find it unless they know what to look for. How do I use it we can ask? Just attach the headgear, place the optic sensor over your right eye, then connect the other end, umph. And she rolls over to the Pip Boy. You'll feel a slight rush, some nausea. Then your head will feel clearer. With that, she falls asleep. In her bedroom, we find some jet, a lighter and booze in her bookshelf. And every now and then she'll mumble in her sleep. Combination's safe. 73, 58, 51. But you'll notice that this is not the combination she told us in dialogue. This is the combination to John Bishop's Safe, which we'll explore in a moment. If we never unlocked the combination to her safe in her dialogue, we could simply use our lock pick skill to pick it. However, even if we access the safe, we won't find the Pip Boy attachment, unless we unlocked it through her dialogue. Assuming we did inside the safe, we find the Pip Boy lingual enhancer, as well as some jet, a necklace, a vanity, a 10-millimeter pistol, some ammunition, two stem packs, and over $500. The Pip Boy lingual enhancer consists of a storage holodeck, a microfilament card, headgear, and an optical sensor that is placed over the user's right eye. When used, an optical flash transmits an entire dictionary into the user's memory, permanently improving the user's speech skills. It weighs 8 pounds. We can use it to get the bonus. In her next bookshelf, we find some needles and a small stash of money, and in the second one we find some mute fruit and a bunch of booze. In her desk, we find a stem pack, more ammunition, and more money. We see another room directly above this one, but instead of exploring it now, we can go downstairs and finally talk to that one black-haired woman who told us to come here now. Haven't seen you around before, she says. What's your name, stranger? And she smirks. Actually, never mind. I don't want to know. You as bored as I am? No, we can say. You knew or something, she says. I'm Angela Bishop. My dad is the head of Family Bishop. You better do what I say, and I say you're coming with me. Now, she has the same response to all of the rejection options we find here. If we say, you're right, your dad is head of Family Bishop. That's why we're not going anywhere. She says, you'll wish you hadn't turned me down. Daddy's going to start hearing all sorts of things about you soon. Just you wait. Whatever we can say. And she says, my father's going to kill you when he hears how you treated me. Despite this threat, he doesn't turn hostile if we talk to him while on his quest, or with the briefcase in our inventory. Or instead of turning her down, when she asks us if we're as bored as she is, we can say, uh, this is the chosen one. Why are you looking at me like that? Why? Am I getting a reaction out of you? She takes a step towards us, and her voice drops. Am I giving you a hard time? Yeah, it's getting pretty hard. Can you help me with that? Look, she says, I got some jet in my room. And not that crappy stuff they give to dime store hookers and junkies. You want to fly? Sure, buckle up, baby, we can say. Now this conversation goes very differently if our chosen one has low intelligence. When she asks us if we're bored, we can say, Yum, yum, me like yams. Or used to travel with someone named Ian, kept shooting me in the back with burst fire. Which is of course a reference to Ian from Fallout 1, who notoriously killed the vault weller with burst fire if we gave him an SMG in that game. Of course, our companions do the same thing to us in this game, so, yeah, this is a very self-aware option, or we can say, Mi-Bortu. Oh, this is going to be interesting. Come with me, I want to show you my room. Mi-No-Go. Aw, come on, please. I really wanted to show you my room. It'll just take a second. Promise. No-Go, Mi-No-Go. No-Make Mi-Go. No-Take-Me-Bad Place. No. Enough already, you stupid jerk. Get out of here then. Idiot. Or we can say, Uh, we gonna play? You bet. Come on. Mi-Come. And with that, we appear in the room just above Mrs. Bishops. Angela leads us up to her room on the third floor. While there, she cracks open a safe on the wall, takes out some jet, and offers some to you. Want some, baby, she says? There's more than enough for both of us to fly. Yes, we can say. Hmm, she says, and Angela takes a deep hit from the bottle. Why don't you come over here? She lies down on the bed and takes another hit. If you hurry, you can still suck some of this jet out of my mouth. We can say, No thanks. I might throw up if I inhale any more of that crap. Or if I stay here any longer. Angela's eyes blaze with rage. She jumps up from the bed and starts screaming her head off. And I can't record what she actually screams here, because I don't want to freak out the people in my house or explain to my kids what this word means. Nevertheless, the guards come running. And if we play a low intelligence character, he can say, Shh. If you don't be quiet, George won't let me play with the rebits. Shh. Which is a reference to John Steinbeck's of My Sand Men. With some day, we're going to have a little house and a couple acres. And the cow, pig and chick and chick. We're going to live off the padded land and have rabbits. And have rabbits. So, um, what, what, uh, how I get to tender rabbit. We're going to have a big vegetable patch. We're going to have a rabbit patch. And down in the flat, a little bit. Don't peek about, about for the rabbit. And I get to tender rabbit. Yeah, you get to tender rabbits. Lenny, I want you to look around here. If you're getting any trouble, want you to come right here, you hide over here in the brush. Hide in the brush. You hide in the brush until I come for you. Do you remember that? George, I can't do it. I hide in the brush until you come for me. But you ain't going to get no trouble. Because if you do, I ain't going to let you tender rabbits. I'm not going to get into any trouble. Poor Lenny. Or we can say, well, since you put it that way, sure. And the screen fades to black. When we awake, we find Angela still out cold and bad. Oxhorn. And we find her safe open. Inside the safe, we find a koila rope, another vanity, a knife, some jet, some booze, and some money. So we have the opportunity to sleep with both Mrs. Bishop and Mrs. Bishop. And doing so has great ramifications on the game's ending. If we didn't have any Jimmy hats in our inventory, if our Jimmy was not wearing his hat, things happen. But we'll cover that when we go over all of the possible endings for Fallout 2. In her lower bookshelf, she has a leather jacket, another needle, and some cash. In the top bookshelf, she has more cash, some booze, a lighter, and another leather jacket. The room right above hers is the room belonging to John Bishop. In his desk, he's got some booze, shotgun shells, and some cash. And then we can try to open his wall safe. If, however, we try to open it without checking for traps, we detonate a trap. And Bishop's men come attacking. If, however, we successfully detect and disarm the trap, we can pick it to open Bishop's safe. Inside, we find Bishop's Hollow Disk, a Raider map, a revolver, some ammunition, grenades, a Cat's Paw magazine, a Super Stimpak, some Stimpaks, and some money. Taking a look at the items in our inventory, we'll start with the map. This is a crumbled map of pre-war Northern California. Reno and the surrounding Caravan Trails are outlined in red. And there is a red X, far to the east of Reno with Raiders, Scrawled Beneathit. It weighs one pound. This map gives us the location of Bishop's Raider Den, the Raiders that have been attacking Vault City. At last, we can complete our quest from Vault City to eliminate the Raider threat. And the Hollow Tape Beneathit is Bishop's Hollow Disk. This Hollow Disk contains incriminating information on Bishop's secret deal with NCR. Apparently, Bishop hired mercenaries to attack Vault City in the hopes that Vault City would turn to NCR for military aid. This Hollow Disk is audio-only and has no text data. Vault City might be interested in this. We can't read the Hollow Tape, but we can read the map to place the location of the Raider base on our Pip-Boy. Or we can use the safe to stealthily kill Jean Bishop. But only if we passed the Repair and Trape's dialogue check while talking with Leslie and Bishop. If we did, and before disabling the trap, we can try to repair it. The screen briefly fades to black, and our Pip-Boy tells us that the combination on the safe has successfully been changed. Heh heh heh. Now, Jean Bishop won't try to access his safe while we are on this third floor. So let's find a way downstairs. Heading out of Bishop's room, we see a pool to the right. And there's nothing here. So with that, we've explored the top floor. Heading south, we can go through a door to find Jean Bishop standing by his billiard table. If we find ourselves upstairs before having given the briefcase to Mr. Bishop and without it in our inventory, he says, what the? Who are you? And what the hell do you want? And no matter what we say here, he says you got some balls. Why didn't you just tack a sign on your chest that says, dumb, fancy jerk? Eat ledger's stupid son of a biscuit, and he and his men turn hostile. If, however, we are already on his quest, he says, yeah, damn, well, better have some good news for me. Is Weston dead or not? If we haven't completed the quest yet, we can say not yet. I have a few things to take care of first. And he lets us go. However, this happens only twice. After accepting his quest, we can go upstairs to the third floor and pass him two times. Each time he inquires about Weston, and if we haven't killed him, he lets us go. But on the third time, if we still haven't killed him, we see this same hostile dialogue, and he and the entire casino try to kill us. The reason for this is to allow us to sleep with both of the women in his life. But if we want to complete his quests and sleep with both his wife and his daughter, we have to turn in the briefcase first, get the quest, then sleep with one, we'll appear on the third floor, we walk downstairs, then sleep with the other. We appear back on the third floor, and we can again go back downstairs without being attacked. In this manner, we can go off to complete the quest, having slept with both women, which affects the game's ending, but we must have killed Weston before we come back a third time. When we arrive back on the second floor, one of two things happen. Nothing happens, and we continue on our quest, or if we booby-trap the safe, and if we wait around a little bit, after a while, Bishop opens his safe, and we hear the explosion, heading back upstairs, and going to Bishop's room, we hide pieces of his body, lying right before his safe, and there's nothing on his inventory because the explosion destroyed it all. But everyone in the casino thinks that it was an accident. He tripped his own booby-trap, and so no one turns hostile. We'll keep this method of assassinating the man in mind, but for now, let's leave him alive, and continue with his quest to see what happens. Heading out, we arrive back on the casino floor, and it's here that we notice a staircase leading to a basement for the first time. Heading downstairs, it appears to be some sort of arena. Moving south and opening a door, we see a big fighting ring. Looks like Bishop does some fights here. Heading back, we see a door to the left, and inside a number of lockers. In the lowest locker, we find some turkey. In the second locker, we find some buff out. In the third locker, we find a first aid kit, a needle, and some stem packs. And in the final locker, we find the plated boxing gloves. These are the boxing gloves that I talked about in my episode on the Golden Globes and the Jungle Gym. It is this pair of boxing gloves that could be the key to our success if we choose to fight the Masticator. And lo and behold, who do we find here stuck on the basement of the Shark Club? Why none other than the Masticator. So the Masticator is John Bishop's pet pit fighter, and he keeps him in a cage. So the Bishop family is responsible for putting on the fights at the Jungle Gym. And it looks as if the fights are rigged. But back to the task at hand. To fulfill this quest, we have to travel to a brand new location. NCR. But I'm all out of time. In our next episode, we'll briefly explore NCR just enough to complete this quest, then come back to Nureno to finish things up with the Bishop family before moving on to the fourth and final Nureno family. I publish new videos each and every week on my channel, so if you don't want to miss the next one, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you haven't, you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications. Consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I've got a brand new shirt in the shop. Lions pride. The Brotherhood does its best, but sometimes they need something special. That's where Lions pride comes in. This design comes on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find it on a bunch of other products as well, like smartphone cases, mug stickers, posters, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below, or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.