In our last video, we caused a kid to get murdered, retrieved our stolen car from the chop shop, and slept with the guy until his head exploded. Just another day in the wasteland. With our car back, we can finally continue with the mission that Señor Mordino gave us, to track down the Corsican brothers and extract a payment. Señor Mordino told us that we could find the Corsican brothers at the Golden Globes porn studio. Just south of the Shark Club. To find the Shark Club, we need to head out of the Desperado and take the road north, directly underneath the glimmering pre-war Reno sign, the biggest little city in the world. Beneath the sign, we find hookers and drug dealers. A few of the drug dealers carry any cash on them, making it difficult to get rid of all of our perloined goods. We'll have to lead in up our companions. Continuing north under the sign, we arrive in the middle of downtown, just outside the Shark Club, which is strange because the exit grid that leads back to the Reno sign is south down the road. So we should have arrived down there, but instead we arrived in the middle of downtown. Alright, moving south, we pass by the Jungle Gym on the eastern side of the road to find the Golden Globes porn studio on the western side. Heading inside, we find posters on the wall promoting the many pornographic videos this studio has produced, and opening the door to the right, we walk into the main office of the Corsican brothers. But inside the main office, we only find one person. And that's the joke. It's pretty obscure. The Corsican brothers is the name of the 1844 novel about two conjoined brothers separated at birth who can still feel each other's pain. The plot has then gone on to inspire a slew of film adaptations, including a 1970 parody starring Jean Wilder and Donald Sutherland, and probably most famously, Cheechin Chong's The Corsican Brothers from 1984. However, this particular joke only makes sense when considering the 1941 adaptation starring Douglas Fairbanks Jr. And the reason is because Douglas Fairbanks Jr. played both of the Corsican brothers in that movie. So, due to budgetary limits, they couldn't put a lot of money into special effects, so neither of the Corsican brothers, both played by the same actor, shared much screen time together. So essentially, in 1941's The Corsican Brothers was just watching Douglas Fairbanks Jr. play two different roles in one movie. And that's the joke here. This porn studio is run by the Corsican brothers, but we only ever find one of them at any given time. The Corsican Brothers at your service. He glances up irritated. You the new fluffer? What is this place we can say? And he says this whole place? This here's the Golden Globes, a film studio. Probably the only one still erect and standing in the world. But enough about this place, you're looking for a job pal? We need talent like you. But how do you film? We can say, I mean, come on, you'd need cameras, film projectors. Where would you get all of that stuff? And he says we'd lucked out. We don't need any of that Stone Age crap. We stumbled across a working, porno, or hollow graphic projector. No bulky equipment, no fuss, and no unsightly mess. Now we have two options here. We can say that we're interested in the job, or we can ask, what's a fluffer? But he has the same response. Alright then, he says, head to the back, start waxing shafts. Here's your pay, five chips. If we do what he says, the screen goes dark. That sucked, cries the chosen one. We have a foul, unhealthy taste in our mouth, and we feel sick to our stomach. But hey, five chips is five chips, and we're poisoned. Oh, the next time we talk to the course of the Can Brothers, they address us as Mr. Fluff's a lot. And we can repeat this as many times as we want. We only get five chips, but each time we get poisoned. Alright, so I had to google this. A fluffer is, um, alright, well, before the days of the little blue pill, um, alright, so you know how during a round-sale, the blood vessels, I know, I think I'll just let you google it. Yeah, moving on. Instead of all that, we can say, no, I'm not your new fluffer. I'm here for Big Jesus Mordino's money. Um, sure, sure, sure, sorry about the misunderstanding he says. Here you go, 250 chips. And, uh, say hello to Big Jesus for me, okay? Well, that was easy. We got the money. But while we're on this side of town, we might as well explore a bit. The women in the office are just his bodyguards, and they turn hostile if we inspect the bookshelves. If we manage to loot it, however, we find a bottle of booze and two Jimmy hats. Moving north out of the lobby, we arrive at the porn set. Nearby we find a fluffer. Got a towel. One of the actors had an accident. We find one of the pornographic actresses standing near to a bed. I really want to direct, she says. On the ground, we find some robes and a leather jacket. These robes look suspiciously like the children of the cathedral robes. They were sawduring the events of Fallout 1, and sure enough, inspecting them, they are. So looks like after the master's fall, the children of the cathedral went into porn. Or maybe they just sold their clothing. In the bookshelf, we find some rad scorpion limbs. One of only two in the entire game, it has no in-game purpose. A cattle prod and a lighter. Exactly what kind of movies are they making? Despite this being a set, the pornographic actress is extremely protective about whatever's kept in this dresser. She will attack if she catches us. If she doesn't catch us, we find a blow-up doll, a sharpened pole, two Jimmy hats, another leather jacket and a rope. Ouch. Don't think I want to work on this set. Moving northeast, we pass another fluffer. I wish some of the actors would shower. I mean, a regular shower. We could open a door at the end of the hallway, which leads to a library. This must be another film set. I hear porno's take place in libraries sometimes, for whatever reason. The bookshelves are mostly just there for show. However, in one, we find a blow-up doll. If only Francis was here. Then on a table, against the southern wall, we find a bunch of booze and fruit. And some decacola got to keep hydrated. In the northwestern corner, we open a room into a small office. In the desk, we find two Jimmy hats, a vanity mirror, a hyperdumric needle, and some money. And in the bookshelf, we find some mute fruit, some beer, and more booze. Now, there is more we can do here at the Golden Globes, but we can't do it just yet. So we'll be back. Before heading back to Sinor more dinner, we can move east down the street. We see a bunch of guys around a peril fire. Hip you with something son? Says one. Here's a few bucks we can say. Can you play something else? Alright then, you heard the man boys. Let's try a little something else. Apparently these three are street musicians. We sadly can't listen to the music they're playing, but we can pay them to change the tune as many times as we wish. Then heading north up the street, we find a man in an orange shirt. This man has a slight facial tick and a scar down one of his cheeks. The scar looks like a knife wound. Brother, he says, I had my eye on you since you walked down the street. You know what I see? No, what do you see? I see a pilot, he says. I see someone who wants to fly. You just need a little help. A little jet. Jet, huh? I had some quest and my pilot friend, he says. When it comes to jet, Jagged Jimmy J is your man. I got the best cramp a new Reno pure jet. Straight jet, the safest jet. Jagged Jimmy J, huh? Alright, say, I had some quest other dealers, he continues. They don't care about quality, but me, I like keeping my customer base and keeping them happy. Know what I'm saying? It's just my way. The Jimmy J way. Hey, says the chosen one. The Jimmy J way sounds great and all. And that's why I had some quest. So what do you say? What can Jagged Jimmy J do for you today? How'd you get that scar, Jimmy? We can ask. Jagged Jimmy J's got a lot of love, my pilot friend, but the world doesn't always love Jagged Jimmy J backsy. I know it, we can say. Sometimes the world's a cruel place. And then Jagged Jimmy J points at his scar. I got this one. I was stopping this one big ugly son of a gun from hitting this check. Because she don't like the way he was touching her, right? Serious? We can say? Man, guys who beat up women deserve to be laid low. And Jagged Jimmy J gets into a fighting stance. So as I step in, right? And he pulls an iPhone old JJ. I ain't got nothing on me, but my bare hands, right? So we get into lucky cut before I bam! Canceled his ass. No cramps as the chosen one. I don't think I'd have had the iron to step in like that. Hell, that man could have killed you! He almost did too, says Jagged Jimmy J. You know, when I got into what I wasn't thinking like I'm gonna be Mr. Brave Man and all, but, and the chosen one can interject, you just did what was natural to you. Right? We can say? And he says, yeah, yeah. I just saw something wrong and I had to do something, right? No way I could let something like that go on while I was on the scene, you know? You got balls to do what you did, Jimmy, we can say. Most people would have just hung their heads and walked away. I like people, says Jagged Jimmy J, and I ain't like it when somebody messes with somebody else just because they can. That crap's just wrong. You're Brave Man, Jimmy. A Brave Man, says the chosen one. Where your scar with pride? Say, can I see what you have in stock? Hell, my pilot friend, I like you, says Jagged Jimmy J, so don't you be pulling up that bar to screen with its fuses and wires and all. Uh, okay, says the chosen one, taken slightly back at that breaching of the fourth wall. Then how are we gonna deal? Look, says JJ. This is bad business and all, and don't go tellin' nobody about it, but let me give you some jet twin friends. Next time, of course, you gotta pay, but this one's on Jagged Jimmy J, all right? And with that, he gives us some free jet, just for listening to his heroic story. Thanks, Jimmy, we can say, say, can I see what else he got in stock? And here we find one of the few merchants who actually has some money on his inventory with which to barter, and he also carries some Stimpacks. Hey, before I go, where'd you get your jet, Jimmy? Glad you asked my pilot friend, he says, glad you asked. See, all them other dealers, right? They get their stuff second hand, watered down, diluted with all sorts of crap. But your jet, on the other hand, we can say, and he says, me, I got ties to the creator, my pilot friend. I get my jet straight from the brainiac, the living god of Kim compounds. Myron, Myron, we can say. He's family, Mordino's golden boy, he made jet. Buying from Jagged Jimmy is like buying from Myron himself. You hear? That's why JJ got the pure jet, the best jet. I think I could meet this Myron, we can ask. And he says, hell no, the Mordino's got that boy, longed up tighter than a new Reno Virgin. No way they're gonna let anybody gonna touch their livelihood, no one I'm saying. I hear you, we can say. So how much security they got on this guy? Guards, guards, and more guards, he says. Plus, tightest electronic security in Reno. You'd be lucky if you even hear about somebody, see on Myron, he's so well guarded. Well guarded, huh? Where exactly we can ask? And he says, they got him stationed at this place called The Stables, to the north, outside the city limits. I only been there once. They never let me pass the gates, and I work for the family. Come on, we can say there must be some way I could see him. And he says, beets the hell out of me, friend. I sell for the boy, and I hardly see him, but once or twice from a hundred yards away. Big Jesus, Mordino, don't let nobody near him who ain't tight with the family. It must have been a very long way away, because if we bring Myron to Jagged Jimmy J, he doesn't appear to recognize him. He makes no commentary on seeing him stand right next to him. However, we do learn that he really did get his jet supply from the Mordino family. Because with Myron in our party, when we ask him where he gets his jet, he says, I used to get it from the God himself Myron, see? But he up and left, or got aced. Now I mostly pedal straight from the Mordino family. So with Myron gone somehow, the Mordino family is still making jet, perhaps Myron left behind the recipe, and they're just following that. At any rate, when done talking with Jagged Jimmy J, we can head north a bit to enter the Jungle Gym. Heading inside the Jungle Gym, we see a number of boxers working out. Exploring the place we don't find a whole lot, there's a bank of lockers to the left, most of them are locked, and few of them have anything inside. The second locker in the front row has some money in a leather jacket, the fourth locker has some boxing gloves, and the fifth locker has a hypodermic needle, some money, and some brass knuckles. Then in the back row, the fourth locker has a stash of kems, buff out, stem packs a first aid kit, and some money. The third locker has another pair of boxing gloves, and the second locker has some money, brass knuckles, a knife, and some leather armor. Walking around the place, we find boxers sparring in the ring, and fans standing outside the ring cheering them on. Then in the middle of the gym, we find a small man with orange hair. The game describes him as a cute little person, in quotes. The midget studies you as you walk up and takes the toothpick out of his mouth. Yeah, what do you want big guy, he says? Who are you, we can ask? And he says, who, you ain't heard of me? Stuart? Stuart Little? Biggest agent in all of Reno? Someone's done you a disservice not telling you about me, pal. He sticks a toothpick back in his mouth, chews on it a bit. Got a name, he says? You ever worked in a circus, Stuart, we can ask? And what makes you think I've ever spectated a circus? Much less been enslaved by one, says Stuart. Uh, says the chosen one. Well, I know that many of the citizens in Reno act like they came out of a circus, and I thought you thought because I'm a person of short stature, says Stuart, the only career I could procure would be confined to the so-called big top. The chosen one, stammer's. Uh, well now, you took one quick look at me and thought you could deduce my entire life. Continuous, Stuart? It would never have occurred to you that a person of my height could have obtained a career in boxing management. I'm sorry, says the chosen one. I meant no offense. Why should I take offense? Says Stuart, just because it seems to be the habit of everyone in this game to make instantaneous judgments of other NPCs based solely on their physical appearance? He says, again breaking the fourth wall? Well, says the chosen one. I don't know about instantaneous judgment. Why continue, Stuart? I've done the same thing to you. For example, oh, says the chosen one? I've taken your ridiculously over muscular physique. Your greedy Mad Max wanna be demeanor. Your unimaginative character point allocation and concluded you're a mini-maxing munchkin. The chosen one is again taken aback. I, you are nothing more than a typical, quote-unquote, RPG male hero model, if you will. One of many such models that seems to fill this world in droves. Well, says the chosen one. And then Stuart looks at us pityingly. But do you see the tragedy here, he says? I have mistakenly reduced you to a stereotype, a caricature, a generic Fallout model instead of regarding you as a specific unique character. Uh, says the chosen one, but Stuart, I am a typical hero model. In fact, I'm the player character of this very game. Hmm, says Stuart. You got a name? Well, wasn't that a lovely conversation? Because hell, who needs immersion, right? I am Oxhorn. I'm looking to box. Can you help me out? You want a box? Says Stuart. Uh, alright, let me level with you kid. You just don't look like you got the frame for it. Oh, give me a chance, Stuart. We can say. And he says, hmm, alright. I'll give you a chance. But I ain't promising anything. This hurts business even a little bit in Jorout. He puts his hands on his hips. My take is half the winnings. No arguments. Eh, cut your take down to 25% and we got a deal, the chosen one can say. And if we fail the barter check, he says no dice, 50-50 or nothing. You don't like it? Walk. Whether or not we pass the barter check, if we continue, he'll say, alright, and then Stuart looks us over. You're going to need a name, he says, you know, a handle. Something that sounds tough. Me. Like, Oxhorn the Hurricane or Oxhorn the Brawler, you know? And now, we get to choose through a number of boxing names. There's Jabbie, Spinning Jenny, Piston, Hurricane, Big Bad Mother, the chosen one. Hey, that's convenient. Raging Bull, Lamata, Sledge, Glass Joe, hey, a punch out reference. New Reno Nancy, Bald Bull, oh, another punch out reference, Princess, Duke, Macho Man, Randy Savage, Iron Maiden, Ripper, Valkyrie, Hook, Sidewinder, Bad Girl, Rockjaw, Stonewall. Chain Saw, Helen Wheels. Okay, that's clever. Tamigan, Black Widow, Smash, Delilah, Lightning, Jaco, Sister Steel, Super Sledge, Apollo, getting some rocket references here. Scrap iron, Tigris, Tyson, Lady J, Drago, Godfather reference there, Clever Long, Duchess Bulldozer, Grace, Iron Hand Luke, Faith, Doctor Fist, flyin' on Balboa, Floyd Ray Willis, Calamity Jane, Cobra, Cobra. Bloody murder, Executioner, Freight Train, Super Vixen, New Reno Jim, Crusher, Rico, Hammerhand, Widowmaker, Baylif, Butch Cool Ridge, Alli Cat, Bad Mojo, Tank, Bruiser, Nix, Scorpion Punchy, Cheetah, Verdict, Judge Jury, Piledriver, Athena, and Mad Dog, Holy Cow. Well, we can't blame them for not giving us enough options. Instead of scrolling through all of that again, we'll just go ahead and choose... Mad Dog. The Midget nods, Mad Dog, Mad Dog, not bad, not bad, it fits. Then he nods the ring. Shall we get to it then? You ready? It's best if we heal up first before the fight, but I didn't know that at the time, so I went ahead and said, let's do it. The screen fades to black. We arrive at the ring later that night. The announcer stands in the middle of the ring. Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, tonight's match is brought to you by Ruttga. When you ever, so loosely have to have something to drink and don't care what it is, choose Ruttga in this corner. That's a challenge. We're in at 172 pounds. Press from the waist. Land and new to new we know, Mad Dog. And in this corner, weighing in at 181 pounds, you know, you love him. Jock. So without further ado, let's get ready to beat him from us. Ground one, fight. And with that, the battle commences. We are stripped of all of our gear. No weapons, no armor, no aid, no standbacks. This is one to one unarmed combat. Well, with boxing gloves, we can find a set of plated boxing gloves in a locker in the basement of the Shark Club. We haven't explored the Shark Club yet. I'll be sure to cover it in detail when we get there. But if we happen to have these plated boxing gloves in our inventory, then we get to use them instead of the regular ones that they give us. The plated boxing gloves do between two and five damage compared to the regular boxing gloves one. So it's a must have item to have before going into the ring for characters who aren't specced into unarmed damage. The fight is pretty unaventful every now and then he'll have something to say. Gonna beat you like a dog. And the spectators will shout out every now and then. Yeah, give it to him. Jock, you're the best, Jock. Super nuclear tornado fist. But the super nuclear tornado fist does not seem to help, Jock. Because we survive to round two. And by now we've earned the respect of the gallery. You're the best mad dog. Give him hell. Mad dog. Mad dog, you're the best. The best. The fight continues. Our hit points get low until finally. Oh, Jock falls to the ground in a puddle of blood. Our pit boy tells us that the boxer was critically hit for six points. Unfortunately, his spine is now clearly visible from his front. What? It's a fight to the death? I didn't know it was a fight to the death. And the winner is by means of a knockout, Mad Dog. For defeating our enemies, we get 100 experience. And for winning our first challenge, we get an additional 500 experience. Stuart smiles like a jackal. Damn, fine performance up there, mad dog. You doing all right? Feeling all right? Let me know when you're ready for your next match. Now we find an option here to say, let me rest a little, then I'll be ready. But me being the bonehead that I am figured, who needs hit points? So I said, I'm ready. Let's get down to business. All right, then, says Stuart. Let's get this circus on the road. We arrive back in the ring. Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, tonight matches brought to you by Schema Goatbears. When your skin's like in that special glow, choose Kevin Goatbears. And let's call another challenger weighing 172 pounds, right from the wasteland, and new to do reno in Mad Dog. And in this corner, weighing in at 177 pounds, you know up your love him, Peep McNeely. So without further ado, let's get ready to beat him ass. I'm going to fight. It was at this moment that I realized that I still only had 15 hit points and no stem packs. And it's a fight to the death as I learned in my last bout. McNeely races forward and a chosen one does his best. And it's around one knockout. Just my luck. Since it was a knockout, we don't kill McNeely. The boxer was critically hit for six points, knocking the air out. He slums to the ground and out of the fight. All right, so we won around without having to kill a guy. For defeating our second challenger, we get 750 experience. Stuart has the exact same thing to say. This time, we'll take a quick break and heal on up with some stem packs. Then when ready, we can talk to Stuart. Stuart nods as you approach. Hey, Mad Dog, what's up? Ready to get back in the ring? And the chosen one can say, I'm ready to rumble. All right then, says Stuart. Let's get this circus on the road. And we appear back in the ring. Ladies and gentlemen, awesome girl. Can I imagine brought you by the cast bar? When you casted it, you need to scratch. And to the cast bar. It is called on the challenger, weighing in at 172 pounds. The rest of the waist went new to New Reno at Mad Dog. And in this corner, weighing in at 100, lead in at half. You know I'm in your love of Evan Holyfield. Which of course is a reference to Evander Holyfield. The only boxer in history to win the undisputed championship in two different weight classes. Oh great. If this boxer is anything like the real Evander Holyfield, okay, I think I'm in for some trouble here. And sure enough, the fight is much more difficult. And he taught us during the battle. Ain't gonna be no rematch, he says. I must break you. You're fighting like a bum. We're down to 30 hit points, but we make it to round two. But we don't last much longer. You know what some of this he says? And with a final punch. You have died. Your quest to find the Garden of Eden and return it to your village has failed. We die. We can of course reload the save and try again. Each fight is different. And it's possible to win having previously lost. But it may mean that our character needs higher endurance, greater strength, or more importantly, a higher unarmed skill in order to proceed. If we bump that unarmed skill up and we manage to beat Evander Holyfield, and we earn 500 experience. Then for defeating our third challenger, we earn an additional 1000 experience. Back with Stuart, we can heal up a bit and when we are ready, we can face our fourth and final opponent. Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, tonight matches brought to you by New Reno Arms. When you need to kill something from a safe distance, come to New Reno Arms. And there's gonna be another challenger weighing into 172 pounds and for some of the Wiseman and Newton Reno's match up. And in this call up, weighing in at 194 pounds, you know what? Your love on the domestic horse. So without further ado, let's get ready to beat the mass. Oh no, the Masticator. The Masticator has a huge amount of AP, which allows him to cross almost the entire ring in one move and strike three times around. I found that even with high unarmed skill, my hits would often do no damage at all. But somehow I made it to round two. Yeah! Screams the chosen one. Inspecting our inventory, we find an ear. Players ear. This is your ear. The Masticator bit it off during the fight and spit it on your unconscious body. If you're reading this, it probably means you'll be reloading soon. Of course, it is possible this item has some special value. That's a bit of a red herring, actually. The ear has no value. You can't eat it like you can the mutated tell. You can't throw it like a missile like you can the mutated tell. It just takes up inventory space. But now we know why he's called the Masticator. He'd choose on people's ears. And this, of course, is a reference to Mike Tyson. More specifically, to the June 28th, 1997 fight between Mike Tyson and Evander Hollyfield. In which Mike Tyson bites off the ear of Evander Hollyfield. He actually bit him in both ears, but only tore off a chunk of one of them. Thenceforth, the fight has become known as the Bite Fight. I am old enough to remember watching this on television. The fight took place one year before this game was made, so this was fresh news to the makers of Fallout 2. Back in the ring, we can try to knock this guy out. No luck finding a rough that's gonna disqualify him for this Mastication. But if we're lucky, and if our unarmed skill is high enough, we can, after a long and gruesome fight, defeat the Masticator. And the winner is by means of knockup, and that's it! For being victorious in combat, we earn a thousand experience, and for defeating our 4th and final opponent, we earn an additional 2500 experience. And if we have an unarmed skill of 160 plus, we have a chance to find the Masticator's ear in our inventory. This is the Masticator's ear. You bit it off after pummeling him senseless. Congratulations on beating him. He's one of the toughest NPCs in the game, especially when you don't have any weapons or armor. I guess we're learning lessons from the Masticator. Getting a bit nibbly. Yeah, you're lightning and crap thunder, kid. Says the very proud Stuart Little, which is a reference to a line from Rocky. Like the guy said, he's gonna eat lightning, and you're gonna crap thunder! You'd wrap that son of a gun like a bad habit. Good job! This, like gold, is what you have. And by defeating the Masticator, we earn the Prize Fighter title. You are the heavyweight champion of Northern California. You have gained fame, respect, the love of thousands, and a bonus to your toughness and unarmed skill. This title increases our local popularity in Nureno, and grants us a plus 5% bonus to our unarmed skill and to damage resistance. But the Prize Fighter title unlocks a number of other things in Nureno. Heading outside, if we try to talk to Jagged Jimmy J, he says, hey, you look familiar to Jimmy. Do I know you're my pilot friend? We find the following option. For any character we have, here's what the dialogue sounds like with low intelligence. Me fightin' ringin' front of lots of yelling people who yell, kill, kill the bad guy. So I punch him until he's standing down. And Jimmy says, that's it. I knew I'd seen you somewhere before. Damn, why didn't you pull from the start? Put Jimmy in his place. Well, what can I do for ya? And then he becomes a merchant. But with a character who has four or fewer intelligence, we find another option here. When he says, do I know you? Our low intelligence character can bizarrely say, how can one truly know another Jimmy? Is it even possible while we are on this mortal coil? Or is it only possible when we free ourselves from our physical bodies? With that, Jimmy falls into a stunned silence. We think that we've paralyzed his brain. Now our low intelligence character can steal everything he has. This bizarre option is only available for a low intelligence character which doesn't make a lot of sense since our little speech was so eloquently put. At any rate, then moving on to the Golden Globes porn, we see that our fame has spread even here. The Corsican Brothers glance up. Holy mad dog! How come you ain't been by earlier? Great fight by the way. Great fight. What can I do for ya? The chosen one can say, gotany openings, I could fill? And he says, hell yes, let's try you out. Hey, give me some extras here. We got us a star in the making. The screen fades to black. But when we're all done, the Corsican Brothers say, sorry pal, you're handsome, you're flexible, you got the stamina of a brawman, but you need a bit more experience in the sack before we can do business, okay? We ain't got the time to train ya. And the chosen one can say, oh, alright, well I'll try and increase my ya experience, maybe next time. In order to satisfy the Corsican Brothers, we have to have eight or greater in agility and endurance. But as we just saw, that's not enough. He said we need experience, but that's a bit confusing. We don't need actual in-game experience. This has nothing to do with our character's level. And now the experience he's talking about is sexual experience. In order to please the Corsican Brothers, we've got to have a lot of sex. So, heading out over to the cat's paw, we can take care of that problem. This is a lot cheaper if we've already become a made man of new Reno, something we'll talk more about a little bit later in this series. But even without the free sex that we get with the made man title, it's not that expensive to engage the services of the prostitutes at the brothel. And we see that our fame is preceding us. Why if it isn't Reno's most famous prize fighter, says Ms. Kitty? What's your pleasure today, sir? And while we're here, we can cover something that I forgot to address in my video on the cat's paw. If we have high enough charisma, we do find an option here to say, well, pardon me for coming on strong, but I'd like to get to know you better, Ms. Kitty. What time do you get off? Uh, work, I mean. As she says, I'm flattered, but no, I can't. And the chosen one can say, oh, come on, just to drink. No pressure, we'll have a great time. And she looks around and then leans in and whispers. Look, come back after you've done what you've had to do to save your people, then we'll talk, okay? So it looks like we have to come back to talk with Ms. Kitty after we save her royal. And the meantime, we can sleep at the prostitutes a couple dozen times to increase our sexual experience. And we'll know when we're getting close, when we start to get some brand new titles. After having sex 10 times, we get the title, Sexpert, you know sex, you know for play. You know how to please a member of the opposite sex and leave them hungry for more. Once we have this title, we know that all we have to do is sleep with prostitutes a few more times until we get the jiggle-o title. Let's be honest, you sleep with anything that walks on two legs. Sometimes you're not even that discriminatory. Once we have the jiggle-o title, we can head back to the Corsican Brothers and again offer them our services. The screen fades to black. And when we are done, the Corsican Brothers say, pal, that was incredible. You were gold out there, pure Reno gold. That performance was worth a thousand hard-ons. You wanna do a movie with us? Come on. Let's talk, baby. Let's talk. We can give in for 200 chips, or we can pass a barter check and say, I'm interested, but first, some conditions. First off, I only work with clean actors. I expect at least 500 chips for each shoot. 26% royalties and no bullcrap. I'm a star, and you know it. I could never get them to agree to the royalties demand, but I did get them to say, I... Hmm, look, I'll agree to the 500 chips, but no royalties, you hear me? And if we agree, he yanks out a piece of paper from his jacket and directs us to scroll our signature on it. Done. Let's film. First, you'll need a stage name, something that screams star. Any ideas? And we can again, sift through a list of names. This time, porn star names. Rod Rocks, Randy Mercury, Freddie Barkwood, Dick Mountain Joy, Ronnie Rickson, Phil Chambers, Rod Sweat, Jack Shooter, Kurt Loader, Rick Dryps, Dick Seaman, okay. The Polish Hammer, Doug Halls, Doug Halls, Cock of the Walk, Vinnie LaJoya, Sir, Lance a lot, Dick S'mothers, Jeremy Bolt, Mr. Pink, Ricky Racktman, Kuthbert Dave Handy, Harry Canyon, Richie Cunning, Linguist, Brett Bulge, Eldouch, Johnson Long, Ebidizr Scrues, Buck Fitch, and Arnold Swollen member. Well, we're gonna have to go with Arnold Swollen member, folks. This list of names is completely different with a female chosen one. Instead, we find Vixen, Mabel Serup, Amber Waves, Lucy Lewis, Amy Ample, Molly Mounds, Honey Tits, Patty Pitt, Ophelia Balls, Felina Schoonmaker, that just sounds awful. A lot of vagina, of course, Kary C, Georgia O'queefe, what, really, really, really. Jill Jacks, Courtney Cox-slave, because Courtney Cox, I guess, wasn't runny enough. Maria Swallow, Lady J, Glenda Glenn, Queen Elizabeth, okay. Jenna Jamison, Bunny LaJoya, Madam Butterfly, Jenny X, Sweet Jane, Darlin Nikki, Sharona, Susie Q, Corvega Sally, Pocahadas, Domina Trish, Princess X, Carlotta, Kissing Mary, April Wine, Ruby Red, Christy Chips, Leisalex, Opium, Alley Cat, Lady Cheddarfly, the postwoman, because she takes your package. Yeah, I get it. Mrs. Holmes, Debbie Dare, Jessica Long, Minks, Sasha Valerie Vickson, and Ruth Less. Huh. All right, Arnold Swollen member. I like it, I like it. Now let's film Arnold Swollen member, Knights, Camera, Action, and we can get down to business. Cut, all right then, pal. That's a wrap, stellar performance, and that money shot, perfect. Here's your cut, 500 chips. You wanna do another? You come see us in a month, you hear? All right then, we can say. And we learn that we have become a star. A big bright shining star. We gain 1,500 experience. And we get a brand new title, The porn star title. You are a big bright shining star. Your sexual exploits are well known throughout New Reno. This title does come with its benefits. A female chosen one who is a porn star, can use it to get her car back from T-Ray, at the shop shop, by having sex with him. And people in New Reno are kinder to us. However, it also has its drawbacks. It locks us out of some New Reno quests. And, for some reason, drug dealers in New Reno charge us more. Maybe it's because they think we have more money to spend, or maybe it's a bug. At any rate, if we want the porn star title, it may be wiser to get it after we complete all quests in New Reno. A topic we'll get to a little bit later in this series. With the porn star title, and as a male chosen one, prostitutes in New Reno treat us differently. We can walk around and talk with them. I heard you cop an attitude, then you cop a feel. Fine by me. I don't really care where it goes, just make sure the camera gets the money shot. You were great in Vault 16, inspired even. Oops, I dropped something in your pants. Let me get it. I love that thing you do with your tongue. I loved you in great balls for hire. You were great in Pocahontas. Hey, sweetie. Any openings I could fill? I loved you in Goodwill Humping. Really? Okay. Hey, Arnold Swollen member. Can you get me a job in this studio? I would never fake it for you, Arnold Swollen member. Mmm, mmm. How do you keep so fit? When is your next movie coming out? Getting weak, can't hold out much longer. Must have sex with you. Can I have your autograph on my chest? However, if we play a female chosen one and get the porn star title, we gain infamy with all of the other prostitutes working in New Reno. And they're vocal about it. Cutter slut. I don't talk to trash like you. She makes an obscene gesture. If it ain't little Miss porn star, how you're fed as out of my sight? I don't know what the course that can brothers see in you. What part of piss off don't you understand? Stuck up for her. Go back to making your money the slow way. Or, don't talk to me jerk. Stay on this street and we'll cut you. Scronny or, get out of here. You're spoiling the biz. You try anything, I'll scar you. Well, if it isn't Grand Queen turd. Man, ruthless. Well, I think it's about time. We've finished the quest we were sent here to complete. Having gotten the money from the Corsican brothers and a number of other things along the way, head back to the Desperado to check in with Signor Mordino. Have you done as I asked? He says. Yes, says the chosen one. Here's the money. He nods at us as we give him the money. Here, half is yours. They had already paid me this month, but I'd like to keep them on their toes. And we can say thank you, Signor Mordino. But Signor Mordino looks at us for a long time. Then nods slightly. I have one last job for you. There, and he takes a deep, weasin' breath, wiping sweat from his forehead, is a man who must die. Who is this man you wish dead? Signor Mordino, we can ask. And he says. This man, Lewis Salvatore, he has killed many of my men. Many proud men of the Mordino family. He butchered them in the street like dogs. His hand clenches into a fist. It is my will that this man die. Wait a minute, we can say. Lewis Salvatore, who rules the Salvatore family, the ones that have the lightbringers that can slice men in half? Mordino nods. Studies are expression. Does that make you afraid? If so, leave. And he points at the door. The Mordino family has no use for cowards. I will see the Mordino family avenged, Signor Mordino. I will return when I have completed the task. And Signor Mordino nods. That is good. The man is old, a cripple. He hides in his bar. Salvatore is near the Bishop Casino. He is a coward and never leaves his room upstairs. When he is dead, return. A cripple, we can ask. And he again nods. The butcher's legs are weak. Jesus wipes his forehead, then draws another weak breath. He also has difficulty breathing. He takes air through an oxygen tank. An oxygen tank, huh? Is this the chosen one? Hmm. All right. With that, we become an assassin. We must now head to Salvatore's to assassinate this Lewis Salvatore. But can we bring ourselves to assassinate a poor cripple? And what of their lightbringers? We'll have to find out. When we visit Salvatore is in my next episode. I publish many Fallout videos each and every week on my channel. So if you don't want to miss it, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have and you still feel like you're missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxhorn. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well, like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, mug stickers, prints, etc. So if interested, you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can click here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.