. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fear was the reactor was having a major malfunction, but turns out that it's due to a power draw that the experimental section is creating. Whatever they are using in there is way over the limit for acceptable power consumption. I've temporarily remedied the situation by having the backup reactor kick on when needed. I don't like to do this, but I have no choice until I figure out what they are up to. Huh, so there was an experimental section of the vault. And many vault dwellers, at least this guy didn't know what was going on over there. In the next one, 004, entry 004, maintenance code RL01 Yellow, issue Geck Chamber radiation purging offline. Engineer Daniel Costa fixed notes, Vault text crappy, handy work is added again. I've spent the better part of a month patching and repatching the radiation purge system that vents excess radiation from the Geck Chamber. I have no idea why the system keeps failing. I suspect the system is simply inadequate and can't handle the amount of radiation it's purging. And installing a new purging system as soon as I can get one couple together from spare parts. Should have had ready in about a month or so. Oh great. So unless this guy somehow managed to fix the purging system, the chamber where the Geck is is flooded with radiation. Will we even be able to get it? And now I think we understand why the entrance to Vault 87 was so irradiated. It was coming from the Geck Chamber. In the next one entry 005, maintenance code RL00 Green, issue tapioca putting miscolor, Engineer Daniel Costa. Wow this guy did just about everything. Fix notes, the mess hall food reconstruction system is outputting the Monday night dessert tapioca putting in an odd bright orange color. This was a simple fix. The color matrix was simply misinterpreting instructions from the main brain and outputting incorrectly. I replaced the interface and the putting now outputs in its proper hue. The shalmy fixes were this easy. And in the next one entry 006, code RL004 red, issue EEP chamber failure, Engineer Daniel Costa. I was summoned into the Overseer's office and met with Dr. Merrick who heads up the experimentation section. He informed me that one of his devices, what he called an EEP chamber, was edited or more correctly redacted. It was a strange device, but I managed to redacted, which didn't fix the problem. I then tried to redacted, which seemed to bring the device back online. I'm not sure what this device is for, but redacted EEP chamber failure. And in the final one 007, code RL004 red, issue need help, Engineer Daniel Foster. This is the only place I could think of hiding this message. In the event that anyone reads this, please try and get word back to Vault Tech HQ that something very wrong is going on in the experimentation section. Something they keep referring to as the EEP. My wife, Mercia, was diagnosed by the medical section as having some sort of disease they wouldn't identify. She's dead now. And those SOBs won't even tell me why. I'm talking to people. I've discovered that many are dead or missing. Checking this with the medical record section gets me nowhere. This is getting out of hand. It's time to deal with this, my way. They took my wife from me. Now I'll take their lives away if I don't get some answers. I've hidden some extra help in my safe, accessing this message will unlock it. If I don't come back, grab that stuff and save yourself. So his wife was diagnosed with a disease and quickly died. And other residents of the Vault were either dead or went missing. What did Daniel cost her due? Backing out of the terminal, we can access the safe and all of its contents are still there. We find a scoped 44 magnum, a stack of frag grenades and stimpacks. So Daniel never came back to his safe to retrieve this stash, which means he failed. Whether he was planning, it didn't work. Or perhaps he succeeded, but died in the process. But what did he try to do? And what exactly were the scientists in the experimentation section doing? What is this EEP? After looting a number of lockers and containers down here, we see that it's a dead end. So heading back upstairs, we can continue west to finish exploring this upper atrium level. Passing the door we came in through, we could open the door to the right, which again leads back out to the atrium. But we find another mutant. After looting their bodies, we can head out to this upper atrium level. I think that's it. We can loot each of these hanging gourd bags, but we don't find much. In one I found a stack of about 50 shotgun shells. This hallway we were traveling down has a staircase that goes up to yet another level. But before we head up there, let's cross the hall, back to the side where we arrived, and finish exploring the rooms over here. We see that it too had a staircase leading up to an upper level, but this one is blocked up with tables and furniture. Or evidence of some sort of conflict here in the vault before everybody died. Moving east, we find a bathroom to the north, nothing in any of the stalls or urinals, and the lockers are all empty. So heading out and moving east, the final room on this section is another bathroom to the north, a women's bathroom. We find a skeleton in one of the stalls, but that's it. So heading back to that staircase, on the southern end of this upper atrium level, we can open the final door on this level. This lock with an average lock, inside we find a storage room, railway spikes on a shelf to the left, a nukikola in a box, a first aid kit on a shelf, a bank of lockers, one of which has some bottle caps inside, some darts, radaway, and a nukikola quantum on a shelf to the west, a copy of pugilism illustrated next to some microfusion cells, at an average locked wall safe, which has some caps and scotch inside. With this room looted, we can head out and head upstairs to the next level. We find a hallway to the right, blocked in with more furniture, and out of a room on the other side of this barricade, comes even more super mutants. Oh, well, noises, I was... Whew, that's it for this level. Moving west, we see a path to the south, and then a path that wraps around to the east. Heading south first, we begin to pick up rads, but this section of the hallway is completely caved in. Something happened deeper in this vault that caused high levels of radiation. Could this be the way towards the irradiated geck chamber that we read about? If so, we need to find another way. Turning around, we can move north, we find bloody handprints on a window. Ha ha, there you are! Bob and another mutant. Yow! And as this guy chased me all the way back downstairs, back upstairs and down the path we can run the corner into this room where the mutant saws. We find some scrap, a stempacks, and a bottle of radix on a table, and there's an average locked wall safe against the southern wall. But first let's check this terminal on a nearby table to see if we can find an option to unlock it. On the table next to it, we find a microfusion cells and some radix. And to access this terminal, we have to hack through an average lock. Sure enough, the first option is to unlock the medical safe, great, and in the next one, all employees must read. Full record section, personnel only. To all medical staff, any Vault member marked as deceased by the special EEP section will be tagged and coded in the computer as an unexplained or undefined death. This comes directly from the overseer of this Vault, who will be personally inspecting your reports to make sure they are accurate. Please refrain from sending inquiries or clarification requests to this office or to the EEP chief physician. Just print out and give any next of kin form DV90OL if they have any questions. Oh great. So any death that happens from the EEP section of the Vault is officially undefined. That's handy. In the next one, we find a deceased listing, Vault 87 deceased individuals, total deceased 93. Natural deaths, four. Mental deaths, two, undefined and unexplained deaths, 87. Is that a coincidence? The number of people killed in the EEP section happens to be the number of this Vault, Vault 87? And we discover something horrible. Number two, Jason Stevens, code UD triple O. UD triple O is the code for undefined death. Jason Stevens was Peter Stevens's son. The EEP section of this Vault killed him. Continuing down the list, on page three, we find number 33, Mercier Coster. But her code is N-009, which is a natural death. That's odd. We read on the terminal that her husband, Daniel Coster, thought that the death was suspicious, which is why he practically waged war against the Vault. But according to this terminal, his wife actually died of natural causes. And what exactly was code N-009? Going through the rest of the list, we don't find any other names that we recognize. We don't find the names of Peter Stevens or Daniel Coster on this list. Backing out of this one, we find a final one, Death Code Definitions. To all medical record staff, the following are the new revised Death Code Definitions. Please update all files to include these codes for faster handling. Note that criminal deaths slash suicides are never listed in these files as such. They must be listed under a code A-008 in accidental deaths as per Vault-Tech mandate. So they listed suicides and murders as accidental deaths? Oh, Vault-Tech. You never fail to disappoint. And here we find the natural death codes we were looking for. O-1 is microbial agents, O-2 is radioactive agents, O-3 is toxic agents, O-4 is allergic reactions, 5 is heart disease, 6 is cerebral vascular disease, 7 is bronchitis, and the Zema or asthma, 8 is liver disease and cirrhosis, and 9 is cancer type 1. So mercy a diet of cancer. And what they just never bothered to tell her husband? Had they simply told him he wouldn't have gone to wage war against the entire Vault? 10 is cancer type 2, 11 is unexpected organ failure and 12 is age. There are quite a few ways to die in this Vault. We'll go through them quickly. For accidental deaths, they've got massive radiation over exposure, massive toxin over exposure, electrical shock, crushing slash by heavy object, and elevator mishap, drowning, mistaken weapons discharge, and instant death syndrome. This is A-008. The one that all suicides and murders should be categorized as. So officially every murder and suicide was just a case of instant death syndrome. And other is undefined slash unexplained. This one is the one for most of the dead Vault residents. Remember there were only four natural deaths and two accidental deaths. The two accidental deaths were Marion, Hanze, and a matcha got per code. We see that she died to electrical shock. The other one was Truman West, and a matcha got his code. We see he died to a mistaken weapons discharge. Then for all of the natural deaths, we've got Paulina Day, she died of old age, Mercia Coster, Daniel's wife, as we already learned she died of cancer, Bennett Faust, he also died of cancer but cancer type 2, and finally Eve Greenwald. She also died of old age. So all the normal deaths in this Vault are perfectly rational. Two cancer deaths, two old age deaths, a few accidental deaths related to basic Vault operations, and exactly 87 undefined and unexplained deaths that came from the experimental section. Inside the safe we find some purified water, and a bunch of medicine, and chems. Now out of the medical room, we had east, we can loot the corpses of the mutants we shot from the other side of that furnisher barricade. We see it over there at the end of the hallway. The mutants had come out of this room, which leads to a staircase that goes up. But before we go up, let's see what was down this staircase. Oh, and we see that it just leads to the other side of that upper atrium level that was blocked in with furniture. Okay, so turning around, we can go through the other door on the other side of the barricade and head upstairs to yet another level of this Vault. We pass by more skeletons and body parts on the floor, and at the top of the stairs we go through a door to the experimental test labs. We arrive in a hallway bathed in red light, we see a door to the right, and opening it. There are many broken terminals in this room. Against the southern wall, we find two shelves, each of which has an ammo canister on it. One of which is locked with a hard lock. We also find some railway spikes. In the northwestern corner, we find yet another box safe. This one locked with an easy lock, and inside we find ammo and caps. Out of the supply room, we can move south. Here we find a door with a viewing window and a terminal, test chamber one, peeking in through the window. What? But just then, a centaur! What is that? Accessing the terminal, FEV test chamber 01, authorized personnel only, chamber status check, error, chamber offline, code 9887YU. FEV reserves, FEV tanks depleted. Heading inside, we can examine the failed FEV subject, and it's wearing a Vault 87 jumpsuit. Super mutants didn't invade the Vault. Super mutants came from the Vault. The 87 undefined deaths we found in the terminal were Vault Wellers, who had been killed by Vault tech scientists, who had been experimenting upon them with FEV. It's the fate of Peter's son Jason. Vault 87 is therefore the source of the Super Mutant infestation in the capital wasteland. Despite their failures, some of the experiments must have become viable, and the viable experiments broke free. Perhaps due to Daniel's sabotage, maybe after his wife Mercier died to cancer, he broke into the experimental lab and released some of the viable Super mutants, who then killed all of the scientists, and went out our rampage through the Vault. That would explain all of the barricades that we find in hallways and in doorways. Then from here it was a simple matter of the Super Mutants escaping. They went out into the capital wasteland, kidnapped people, dragged them back here, ate the weak ones, and dipped the strong ones. This Vault is a Super Mutant Factory. After enough in the next test chamber, chamber 2, we find the door open and little particles, floating in the room. We see a grate on the ground, almost as if FEV was aerosoled and sprayed upon the victims in these rooms. But this victim is gone. Perhaps he or she was one of the Super Mutants who was viable, moving out we can peek into the next room, but then we hear a noise behind us. This was test chamber 3. Opening the door we again find it empty, another viable escapee perhaps, surrounding the corner we can go into the room. With the Mutant we just killed, this was test chamber 4, and lying on the ground dead next to the Super Mutant we killed is another failed FEV subject. Also, in a Vault 87 Vault suit, continuing north down the hallway, we find two more rooms, neither of which have terminals outside. The one to the left is blocked up with more furniture. We can't get in, but we see a couple of human skeletons back there. Another case where they barricaded themselves into their own tombs. And the door to the right leads to another medical lab. We find dead storage devices, and a bunch of operating tables, one has a first aid kit on top, we see a bank of lockers to the south, and on a table we find the Chief Physicians Terminal. Vault 87 Chief Physicians Terminal Dr. Wayne Merrick. We find five entries. In the first entry 87 34 190, the latest subjects in the Evolutionary Experimentation Program EEP are showing some promise after only a single exposure to the modified FEV. We are currently testing five subjects, two males and three females. Each one of them is under 24 hour observation as usual. We hope to have a breakthrough in this strain, as the continual pressure from Vault Tech and the military at Mariposa is becoming most bothersome. Ha! So if they were conducting experiments upon Vault dwellers in this Vault, but at the same time were being pressured by Vault Tech and the military at Mariposa, then the only explanation is that the residents of this Vault were interred before the bomb dropped. In the next one 34 24, incredible results. After only three days, subjects B440, B164, and D624, all our female specimens, are all exhibiting a unique change. Their bodies are undergoing severe physical changes, losing most of their visible female indicators and transforming into an almost asexual state. They are also seeing increased upper body strength and muscle formation in line with males. Similarly subjects C376 and A541, our male specimens, are losing most of their visible male indicators and taking on the same asexual status the females. It seems that the FEV wishes to level the playing field and start with a clean slate as it works. Well this is something we learned from the lieutenant during the events of Fallout 1. The master might not have known it, but the lieutenant knew that super mutants couldn't reproduce. And it was more than just impotence according to this terminal, their very physiology changed to remove their organs. And the next one 34 23 3, we've had a minor setback. It's B440, Mary Kill Patrick is now deceased. According to my autopsy, she died of a massive loss of brain function and was unable to sustain her basic bodily needs. This is the usual pattern we see in all the FEV strains we test. The brains of the subjects becoming too damaged to support even the most basic human needs, eating, sleeping, etc. So far, all other subjects are nominal and continue to exhibit physical changes. This confirms what we deduce after reading the medical terminal, Mary Kill Patrick, was indeed listed as an undefined death. And we'll learn here that she was exposed to FEV. So all 87 of those undefined deaths die as lab rats. In the next one 34 26 5, at 10 days, we are now noticing that the skin of all of our remaining test subjects is actually thickening and becoming more resilient. This seems to be the FEV bringing about some new adaptive change. This is the kind of result we were looking for, adaptations that could prove useful in combat situations. I need to remember to congratulate Dr. Filo on his skin engineering. His coded instructions in this strain seem to be exactly what he expected. So the scientists here at Vault 87, working for Vault Tech, were altering FEV in their own way, separate from the scientist Tettmareposa and the scientists in West Virginia. This can explain why the capital wasteland mutants are so very different, both in temperament and appearance compared to the West Coast variant. And in the final one, 34 33 5. Once again I've hit that damn wall. At 14 days, all of the test subjects began to exhibit severe bouts of rage and anxiety, so much so that they were a danger to my team and this facility. I had no choice once again but to order them to be destroyed. It pains me every time we do this, the same cycle has been repeated in every strain we test. We always see superior physical adaptations, but the mental changes are their downfall. While they never did solve the intelligence issue, despite being able to use complicated laser weapons, these capital wasteland super mutants are still pretty dense. After looting a medx on a table, we can head out and move north down the hallway. Here we find a split, a path to the northeast, with more rooms and a path to the northwest. A super mutant who can talk rationally, accessing the nearby inner calm. There can't be. I'm going quite mad. Could you actually be a pure human? I am indeed, but I have no time to discuss these matters. Yes, you do appear a bit harried, and you obviously didn't come into the depths of this place to chat with me. You're kind of weird in me out. I, uh, I've got to go. No, please. I, I haven't had a civil conversation. Oh my life, don't go. I could help you. A friendly super mutant? Well now I've seen everything. No, you must use that vulgar term. Yes, I was born in the F.E.D. chambers. But a super mutant, I certainly am not. I prefer the term, meta-human. Yeah, suits me better, don't you think? Give me one good reason not to kill you. What's the matter with you? I assure you, I'm unlikely others in this dank place. Well then what are you? Me? You care who I am? You forgive me. I, I'm not used to pleasant reason. I'm more used to grunts and things struck about by the others. My name's Fox. I've lived in this cage all my life. Sorry, I've got more important things to do. Very well. If this is what is to be expected from interacting with humans, then I'm likely to have a better off in here, than out there amongst you. With that we lose karma. But we could always talk to him again. Back so soon? What is it now? Come to Gok in the cage, Danimal? You belong in that cage, ya freak. No, very well. I was hoping my first encounter with a human with improvement more beneficial. I'm sad and that I was mistaken. Or we can say, very well, you were saying? I appreciate your understanding. I'm used to your kind being less cordial, my apologies. I appreciate your understanding. And your tone leads me to believe you, or a reasonable person. Perhaps we can use this moment to help each other rather than fight each other. Foxe? That's quite an unusual name. It was taken from a historical entry in the computer. The name comes from a man who was willing to fight and die for what he believed in. I felt it was appropriate, given my circumstances. He is of course named after Guy Fox. It's amazing how well you can speak. Math? I suppose it is. You know, when my captors placed me here, they were the two stupid realisers through contending, a working terminal. I've spent all my life teaching myself to read and speak based on the information stored on the vault's main frame. Byronic, isn't it? Surrounded by the world's history and yet my world consists of this tiny rule. We can pass an intelligence check to say how ironic that the others consider you a mutant of their kind. Yes, indeed it is ironic. Forgive my astonishment, but I hadn't expect to meet someone with such a learning outlook of these things. It is a pleasant change. Why have you been imprisoned? Because I'm a curiosity and anomaly. They don't know why I'm different than they are and I think it resonates them. All the locked rooms in the medical wing contain failed experiments that they created. How come they've kept you alive? I think when I was created something went wrong and I didn't come out like they planned. I tried all the other things in this makeshift cell block with a result of what they would call failed experiments. If they were smart enough. This is a huge waste of time. Is it? If you've been here as long as I imagine, maybe you can help me. Perhaps. I wish I could stay in chat, but I need to find something important. Let me guess. You're here for the deck. Am I right? The deck never heard of it. I read a tape once on how to tell if someone's lying. I must say you're a terrible liar. Well, how could you be in this horrible place if it wasn't to get it? People before you have tried and failed many times. However, you're in luck. I know where it is. In best of all, I know how you can get your hands on it. What do you know about the deck? I know what it is. I know where it is. And best of all, I know how you can get your hands on it. Good. Tell me everything you know about it then. Not so fast. Quid. Probe. Quo, my friend. If I'm to do this service for you, I expect you to get something in return. Release me from this makeshift prison. And I will personally take you to the deck and retrieve it for you. How about you tell me all you know and I don't paint the wall with your brains. Money is in with your kind. This is why the bombs fell you know. I have no reason to tell you anything. You kill me. You get nothing. So what's the point? Let me out of this place and I'll retrieve the deck for you. Why would you help me? Because you can help me. Let me out of this place. I can't take it anymore. I can't even recall how long I've been here. Take me with you and I'll retrieve the deck for you. I'm not worried. I can mow down whatever's in my way. Bless your weapons, you destroy radiation. I'd say that will prove difficult. Why would I have difficulty getting the deck? The chamber in which the get resides is absolutely flooded with radiation. It's unlikely you'd survive very long. Myself, on the other hand, have surprisingly inherited a useful trait from my fellow and met her humans. I am highly resistant to radiation. Let me out of here and I will place the get safely in your hands. How do I know you won't run the second I get you out? There's the way to prove it. You did have to take my word for it. I've already helped you by warning you about the radiation. Take that as a gesture of good faith. Oh, what do you say? How do I get you out? At the end of the hallway, to your right is a maintenance room. Inside, you'll find the fire control console for the medical area. Trit the alarm on it and I'll be able to get out. Oh, a word of warning, though. Tritping the console activates a failed safe and will open all the recovery rooms in the medical area. So what do you think? Can you do it? Sorry, I have to get going. I don't have time for this. So be it. Take your device and leave me here. It's what I expected when you give up because you can't get the gack and you realize a mistake. You'll be back. Did we lose karma or we can say, okay, Fox, you've got a deal. Glad to see you are a sensible person. Now give me out of this place. I can't stand it anymore. Do you know what the gack does? We can discuss this later. Right now, concentrate on getting this door open. What do I do once I trip the fire control console? I'll stay here until you clear the path to me. Don't just be careful. Some of these failed experiments are quite nasty. I have to go now. It is my hope that we will speak again soon. Peering through the window sure enough, he is a super mutant. He appears to be wearing a vault suit. We find a wall mounted terminal nearby. He's in isolation room number five. If we hack this terminal, we find a few options. We can identify the specimen. He's subject D624. And we can choose to terminate the specimen. If we do, fire flies out of a wall and kills him. If we choose this option and then use the terminal to try to unlock the door, we get a message lock error call for service. So we can't enter this way. But let's not kill him and instead explore these other isolation rooms. We'll start by moving west. We see an empty room right next to his. And it's not locked. We can head inside. But there's nothing here. The occupant must have long ago left. Back to the hallway and across the hall, we find another isolation room. There's a gore bag in here, but nothing of interest inside the room. Back to the hallway and then west, we find a staircase leading up to another floor. Okay, since this leads away from the isolation rooms, we'll turn around and finish exploring this floor first before we move up. Turning around and passing Fox Room, we can round a corner to the north. We see an isolation room immediately to the right. Peering through the window, we see a bunch of corpses. This is isolation room number one. If we hack the terminal, we find all the same options, we find on Fox Terminal. If we identify the specimen, we see that it's subject B164, which is strange because there's more than one corpse inside. Therefore, I think we can conclude that the specimen number was for the pre-war Vault 87 resident, but after the war, the super mutants have been using these isolation chambers to store their captives from above ground. We can again choose to terminate the specimen and fire flies out of an nearby vent. There are three corpses in here. In the game files, we find cut content that explains that these three people were murdered by another person whom we'll meet in a minute. Back out into the hallway and continuing north, we find another room to the left. Inside, we find a dead centaur. This is isolation room number four. If we hack the terminal, we find all the same options. If we identify the specimen, we see that it's B440, and if we unlock the door and head inside, we can look the corpse. We just find a baseball glove at a carton of cigarettes. There's nothing else in this room. Out and continuing down the hallway, we find another isolation room and peering through the window, we see another centaur. This is isolation room number two. The terminal has all the same entries. We discover that this specimen is A541, and we can terminate him. If we go inside, we see that the room is completely empty. Back out to the hallway, we find the final isolation room. Peering in, we see a man standing behind his door. His name is Sid. This is the guy who killed all the other people in the other room. The Fallout 3 official strategy guide tells us that Sid here lost all of his rational thought as a result of his situation, which caused him to go mad and kill the other captives with him. The super mutants interpreted this aggression as Sid being one of the stronger captives. So instead of eating him, they put him in isolation to turn him into a super mutant. Tracking the terminal, we see his identity is C3-76. We could terminate him here if we want to. And inside, aside from his body, we don't find anything. But there is another way to get all of these doors open. Heading north to the end of this hallway, we can turn right and open a door into the final room, it's guarded by super mutants. Inside we find a number of crackling reactors, and two objects we can interact with, the Fire Control Console Fox told us about, and a wall mounted terminal called the Medical Wing Maintenance Terminal. To access this one, we have to hack it, it's locked with an average lock, and if we succeed, we find options to individually release each of the doors to each isolation room. In this way, we only have to hack one terminal, and we can clear each room one by one. Or we can do as Fox suggested and activate the nearby Fire Control Console. You've accessed the Vault 87 Medical Wing Fire Control Console, once activated, the Fire Alarm can't be cancelled. We can do nothing, or we can activate the Fire Alarm. With that, the alarm begins to blare, and if we left all of the occupants in this wing in their isolation chamber, they begin to walk outside. We see Sid walking down the hallway, and he starts a fight with a centaur that was in the other isolation room. If we help Sid here, he turns hostile. Well, he did go mad, so I suppose we had no choice but to put him down. Heading all the way back to Fox's room, we can watch him walk out. Finally, freedom, true freedom! Haha! I cannot thank you enough for this gift. You have no idea how long I pictured this moment in my mind, and it feels far better than I'd imagined. Now, am I part of the bugging? Follow me! With that we gained karma, and Fox leads us towards the geck. And the door to his room is open. We can explore it now, but there's nothing here. Which is weird, because in his dialogue, he said that there was a terminal in his cell that was connected to the Vault-Tech mainframe. It's what he used to educate himself while he was stuck here for all of those years. But we don't find it here. So we do find a broken terminal on the ground. Perhaps he read absolutely everything, got bored, and then destroyed it. Always a possibility. Also of note, he's wearing a Vault-87 jumpsuit. While following him, we see the number 87 on the back. But in his dialogue, he says that he was captured and his captors put him here. He gave us the impression that his captors were the super mutants, who were too stupid to know what to do with him. But if that's the case, if Fox really is a wastelander who was captured dipped in F.E.V. by super mutants and then placed in a cell, why then is he wearing a Vault-87 jumpsuit? The jumpsuit makes us think that he's one of the original Vault-87 dwellers. Now there was a series of holotapes we would have found in Vault-87 that shed some light as to Fox's identity, but they were cut from the game. Those holotapes were from a pre-war resident of Vault-87 named Shelton Dilla Claw, who was a Vault-Tech security officer. As we listen to each tape, Shelton slowly begins to discover what the scientists were doing to the other Vault-87 residents. But let me start at the beginning. My name is Shelton Dilla Croy, and I'm a security officer here in Vault-87. I'm assigned to the laboratory level, which sure beats babysitting the reactor room. Sykes and Kostler drags a unconscious guy from the dorms into the labs. I tried to ask what was going on, but they just glared at me after they left. I snuck into the containment room, and I almost threw up. I don't even know how to describe it. It looked sort of human, but it was deformed. I could see some of its organs on the surface of its body like they were trying to push through. In the second to last holotap, we find him hiding in a reactor room, the scientist are coming for him. What the hell am I supposed to do now? American is team are obviously experimenting on people. Once got to put a stop to it. But how? There's nowhere to go and no one to tell. Shit, what am I gonna... Oh my god. They're coming. I... To tell my wife in dorm either I love her. And then in the final holotape... Stupid machine. How you work this thing? This thing is stupid. Smash it. We here Fox. Now in the game files, this holotape does have Fox's name attached to it. So we know that this was Fox, not some other random super mutant. However all of this was cut from the game. So even though it's likely that Fox was at one time Shelton, we don't know if that's canonical. Fox leads us through this upper portion of the vault. At earlier levels he's really handy at killing these super mutants, but at higher levels he doesn't do a whole lot of damage. We eventually arrive at a room with two doors. The door to the west is inaccessible and requires a key, so we have to follow Fox through the doorway to the north. This is a good opportunity to talk about a terminal that was cut from Vault 87. It's the Overseers terminal and it does answer a few questions for us. In the Overseers terminal we learned that Dr. Wayne Merrick, the scientist in charge of EEP, had Vault-Tech set up this vault for him. And Vault-Tech was able to get the FEV research from both Mariposa and West Tech on the West coast, transferred here to Vault 87. In that terminal we learned the Overseers thoughts on Daniel Coster, the Overseer admired Daniel as being an excellent maintenance chief, but he was wary of Daniel because Daniel was quote, honest to a fault. A character trait the Overseer worried would become a problem later when he had to reveal to Daniel the nature of the experiments going on where. The Overseers terminal then has an entry on Peter Stevens, and the Overseer was initially really impressed by Peter Stevens, describing him as an excellent technician, but in an updated entry he bemoaned the fact that Peter had a nervous breakdown, claiming that his son went missing and that his wife was in deep depression, but strangely enough the Overseer then says, there are no records of Peter having ever been married or his son ever being in the Vault. And I think this may explain why this terminal entry was cut from the game, because in the medical terminal we found his son Jason's file. We know that he was experimented upon with FEV, though we do get a hint as to his potential fate. The Overseer ends by saying that he had Peter taken to the test labs for observation and sedation if need be. And from this cut terminal we learned why the entrance to Vault 87 is so radioactive. It received a direct hit from one of the nuclear bombs that devastated the capital wastelands in the Great War of 2077. So according to this cut terminal the radiation didn't come from the get room, but instead is left over from that nuclear detonation. But again since this terminal was cut from the game we don't know if this is canonical. Whether or not Vault 87 was directly hit by a nuclear weapon. At length Fox leads us to a large room with a working terminal inside. He continues through a door to the north, but he will wait for us so we can go back into this room to read the terminal. This terminal is the lab technician terminal, locked with an average lock. If we hack it we find an option to unlock a storage room door and we find three notices. And the first, 009, attention all lab technicians. The A level storage room has been restocked with rad suits and other radiation dampeners. We were able to bring these up from deep storage for immediate use. Please only take what is needed. There is no need to hoard these items. There is plenty to go around. And to lock the door after you're finished. Alright so I think we know what to expect inside the storage room. Then in notice, 012, the radiation explosion ducts from the Geck Chamber are once again venting radiation directly into the area due to faulty seals. These seals must be properly maintained and checked on a daily basis. There is a clipboard with the maintenance checklist that you must initial when the check is complete in the main laboratory. Any lab technician skipping their check will be held accountable for their inaction. So again we read that the Geck Chamber is flooded with radiation. But what is the source of that radiation? Is it all coming from the Geck? If so, wouldn't it be rather dangerous to hold it? And the next one, 018, Dr. Merrick has ordered the latest test subjects in the EEP to be terminated and then disposed of. Please make sure that bodily remains are placed in the incinerator. As soon as the subjects' vitals are flat, the entire isolation room is disinfected and any relevant data on the subjects are given to Dr. Merrick. FEV is very unpredictable and we do not want any contamination to remain when the next strain isn't reduced to new subjects. And that's a smoke and gun right there. Now to find that storage room, turning around, we see the path we came from to the right and then another path to the southeast. This leads to the storage room we read about on the terminal. We find 80 bottle caps in one of the lockers, some microfusion cells, a laser pistol, a first aid kit and railway spikes on a shelf, then an advanced radiation suit and a bunch of radix and redaway on the other shelf. Right next to this is an average locked while safe, with a small amount of caps and money inside. Heading back to the room with the locked door that required a key, we can take this opportunity to loot the gore bags that are hanging from the ceiling. The door is still locked however, so to continue we have to go all the way back to where we left Fox. The terminals in this room were all busted so moving forward, we can continue down the hallway and then throw a southern door to kill more super mutants. The lockers in this room were all empty, looking through a window to the west we see green puddles on the floor on the other side in that room, but Fox continues through a door way to the south. He opens up another door into a final room where we find a first aid kit on a table next to a broken terminal. We pass by some lockers, all of which are empty, and here Fox stops. Okay, you stay here, beyond this door, the hallways and chambers are flooded with radiation. I'll get the case and bring it right back. Give your eyes open, and in my lesser-minded brethren are bound to stumble across us. With that he opens the door into the highly irradiated Geck chamber. We could stay back or we could follow him inside. If we do, he walks into the containment chamber, activates the Geck storage, and takes it. Or if we don't have Fox, we can go into the room ourselves, activate the Geck container ourselves, and then take the Geck. You found the Vault 87 Garden of Eden construction kit. Whoops, shouldn't that be Creation Kit? What do you want to do? We can do nothing, or we can activate it. Are you sure that you want to activate the Geck? Yes. The Geck will collapse all of the matter within its given radius, and we combine it to form a living, breathing, fertile virgin landscape, and allow life to begin a new. Are you certain you want to do this? I take it this is our final warning, but yes, this is exactly what I want to do. And we're done. So instead of activating the Geck, we can head inside and take the Geck. If we choose to take the Geck ourselves and we release Fox, he says, Deciding to retrieve the device yourself was foolish when I was at your disposal, but eh, so be it. And there's nothing else in this Geck chamber. We see windows leading to some of the other rooms of the Vault that we've already explored, but we don't find anything else here. Or if we allowed him to retrieve it, and we waited patiently for him to return... Here's the Geck. Our bargain is complete. As promised, here's the Geck. I hope it's worth it. I'm afraid this is where you and I part company. I'll find my way out of this place. Don't worry. Maybe we'll meet again somewhere in the way, Slane. BASS! What is it? You can't come with me? Sorry. I'm afraid a super mutant wouldn't be welcome in the places you frequent. All I would do is cause you undo attention and you'll probably get you killed. Alright, well, thank you and goodbye, Fox. Farewell, my friend. I suspect we may meet again. Now that we have the Geck, we can examine it in our inventory. It just shows up in the miscellaneous section as Geck, and the picture of a suitcase. Now we need to work our way out of Vault 87, and get this thing to Madison Lee. As we enter the room with the locked door... Objective is secured, sir. Good work, soldier. Make sure the Geck is secured aboard my voter bird. Yes, sir. I'll have the text come down and remove it immediately, sir. You're certain she's unharmed? Yes, sir. She'll pass out shortly, but we can revive her. Excellent. Prepare her for transport immediately. Right away, sir. General Autumn? But we saw him die. He's the one who murdered Janice Kaplinsky at Project Purity. He was standing right next to our father when everyone in that room died to radiation. How did he survive? But thinking back, replaying those events in our memory, we do recall that he appeared to inject himself with something just before he collapsed to the ground. And whatever he injected himself with have saved him from the radiation that killed our father? With that we're out of time. We'll pick up right here. Where we leave off. Wherever it is we turn up in my next episode. I publish many videos each and every week, so if you don't want to miss my next episode, be sure to subscribe and to click that bell notification button. If you have any feelings you're still missing out on YouTube notifications, consider following me on Twitter at Oxford. I update Twitter manually with every new piece of content that I publish. I have a shirt shop with completely unique designs that you can't find anywhere else. My designs come on shirts in a variety of men's, women's and children's sizes, and in a wide array of colors. You can find them on other products as well like smartphone cases, pillows, posters, stickers, mugs, prints, etc. So we've interested you can find a link to my shop in the description below or you can put here. If you like what I do and you want to support me in a more personal way, consider becoming a patron on Patreon or a member here on YouTube. But more than anything, I'm just so glad you're here watching this video with me today. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you soon with more brand new videos.