War, war never changes. Before the Great War, the US government desperately needed resources from territory to compete with China. In order to achieve that goal, the United States decided to occupy Mexico, the country directly beneath it. The US government put pressure on Mexico politically and economically and even committed US troops to Mexican soil. Mexico resisted, but the United States was the strongest country at the time, and Mexico was forcibly annexed by the United States. A nuclear war broke out and destroyed everything, but the Mexicans were able to win a new freedom, the United States, that no longer existed and people could build a new Mexico. However, the North American region where each power was located was chaos itself, and Mexico was no exception. Caesar's Legion and the New California Republic, a newly born nation after nuclear war. Caesar's legionaries are heading to Mexico to gain new territory. NCR couldn't let Caesar occupy the Mexican region, so they decided to leave the Sea of Los Angeles and head for Mexico to remove Caesar's legion from Mexican land. In Texas, the Brotherhood of Steel, clad in power armor and united by the ideology of steel, feared that the dangerous high tech technology of the past US government would fall into someone's hands in Mexico. Technology also made them set off for Mexico. The Texas Brotherhood of Steel had reasons to stop a huge threat to Mexico. The enclave, a remnant force of the United States government in the past, also decided that Mexico was one of the states of the United States, so they must obtain Mexican land in their hands and headed to Mexico using vertibird. By finding and taking over secret US government bases of the past, the enclave is preparing to become the most powerful force in Mexico. What will be the fate of the Mexican government, the cartel and the Mexicans who want freedom who remained in Mexico? Welcome to Mexico. In the name of the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people, the Spanish people,