Hello everyone and welcome in this video I'll be talking about the country of Mexico within the context of the Fallout universe. With that being said let's get into the video. Pre-war Mexico suffered both natural and mad-made disasters. In 2042 a major earthquake hit their capital, Mexico City. Due to the usefulness in reclamation and disaster cleanup the Mr. Handy robot became quite popular in Mexico. By 2001 the United States had placed various economic sanctions on Mexico citing political instability and pollution. The actual reason however was to protect business interests and the oil supplies within Mexico. These sanctions would severely destabilize Mexico and the United States armed forces would enter Mexico to ensure the operation of oil refineries, the expense of Mexico, despite these activities Mexico remained a vital partner of the United States. Due to the aforementioned business interests and oil supply, businesses that operated before the Great War included Petro Chinko and oil company effectively owned by the American presiding energy and the publisher of a newspaper L. Prericho, D. Lass and Brutus. And sorry about my pronunciation because I don't speak Spanish. During and after the Great War Mexico suffered widespread devastation during the Great War, Mexico City was bombarded by nuclear weapons and was turned into radioactive ruins, although not to the same degree as Washington DC. The collapse of society however resulted in total chaos and the former capital was quickly taken over by looters who formed the beginning of radar tribes to escape the violent citizens fled. Some travel across the now non-existent American border to locations such as Zion Canyon. The environment of Mexico, like that of the United States, was altered dramatically due to the Great War. Radioactive waste released from control station Anclave, otherwise known as the Anclave Oil Rig, after the Great War drifted down the coast of California into the coast of Mexico causing irreversible ecological damage. The western beaches were dotted with toxic waste and sea life irradiated by the dumping of toxic waste into the ocean. Ranger Chief Harlan mentions both night stalkers and big horrors are present in the region. By the 23rd century, the new California Republic had expanded into the former Mexican state of Baja, a number of settlers attempted to establish a settlement but the inhospitable aerotrain led to a number of conflicts with the local population. One instance of this occurring happened at Rattletail, a small village consisting of six shacks built around a well. Rattletail sent reports to the NCR of Raider Attacks. The NCR in turn sent six NCR ranges and Chief Harlan, it took them about a week to get there and one of them died from a night stalk attack. When they actually did arrive, they discovered five men with point 308 rifles defending the village and over 24 dead bodies. While investigating the bodies, Harlan discovered that the people the villagers had killed were not heavily armoured raiders but simply locals trying to access water in the town's well. Seeing that the settlers of Rattletail were going to defend their well to the death, Harlan created a story about a group of 100 raiders ready to attack the village in order to get them to leave, he also said that the raiders had already killed 10 of his rangers. This convinced the villagers to return back to NCR territory. The former residents of Rattletail resettled in Anzer, Borego and subsequently found success raising their corners. Years later after the incident, the NCR deployed veteran rangers into the former Mexican region to which Chief Harlan described as sending their most experienced rangers to chase ghost down in Baja, creating an even more precarious situation for those fighting in the Mahavi against Caesar's Legion. Known Mexican characters within the Fallout universe include Ramirez in Fallout 2, Taco Benedict Pacifico Juan Marian Ramirez, otherwise known as Taco in Fallout 2, devs were definitely having some fun with that one. Big genus Mordino and little genus Mordino, a father-son duo involved in a gang. And if we're going to talk about Mexican characters, we have to talk about what happened to the Mexican survivors in Zion Canyon, those being José, Maria, Selina, Eleanor and Carmen, as well as Pedro and Pablo. There were also eight more unnamed males, four more unnamed females, and nine unnamed children, as well as Maria and Jose being pregnant. On the 20th of September 2095, this group arrived in Zion Canyon. Randall Clark, a protector of Zion Canyon, notices group and kept tabs on them but did not interact with them directly. On the 10th of November Jose broke his leg chasing a big corner. Randall then gave them some antibiotics without them noticing, and that's as far as their interactions went. X residents of Vault 22, who carried the spores from said vault but had not been fully transformed into spore carrier creatures, had eventually made their way to Zion Canyon. And on 11th of February 2096, they gunned down the majority of this Mexican group. They then kidnapped a Lena and Carmen, as well as five children, and they were kept within a pen. And two days afterwards, on the 14th of February, they ate them. Yeah, they ate them. And that concludes their story. This means that they existed in Zion for a little bit less than five months, all and all. But sweet tripod, isn't there a Mexican character you forgot to talk about? You're probably asking? Well, yeah, of course, we have Raul. Now let's get into that. Raul Dahala was born in 2047. He was at the link when to living at Hildargo Ranch outside Mexico City. He was a skilled marksman and mechanic. Both of these skills occasionally got him in trouble with the law, although the rest of his family kept him in line. The ranch survived the war due to its distance from the city, but the stream of refugees from different heavily affected areas proved difficult to deal with. The Tahala family was as accommodating as they could be, but they soon began running out of food as well as lodging. They had to start turning people away. In situation at the ranch, quickly became violent and unstable. Raul and his father had to drive off the refugees by force. Later that night, after the Taharges had gone to sleep, around 24 people arrived, by the doors, and set the house on fire. Raul and his younger sister, Raphaela, managed to escape out of window, but his parents, grand mother, two brothers and two other sisters, were not as fortunate. Raul and Raphaela ran from the ranch, being pursued by the group they attacked their home. He killed the ones that came after them, but he left the rest be, not wanting to risk Raphaela's life for revenge. After the attack on the ranch, he knew as well as safe there, and the refugees wanted him dead so badly they put a bounty out on his head. Despite his sister's fears, he convinced her to come with him to Mexico City, by promising to take her to see the cowboys. They thought that she'd go to Mexico City to look for help, not understanding the danger of radiation. Though it wasn't hit as hard as other places, by the time the Taharges reached Mexico City, it could only be described as a radioactive roll-in. The people of Mexico City got by through looting and had already formed the first radar tribes in the area. The Taharges were living like scavengers, constantly searching for both food and medicine for Raul's burns. This is when Raul believes that his gullification first began. One day, Raul found a novelty costume shop looking for materials to banage his burns with. He found an old requerra outfit inside, still untouched, and wore it back to camp. Raphaela loved it, it made her laugh for the first time since the bombs fell. However, it was dangerous to be dressed this noticeably. Between such a distinctive outfit and his marksmanship skills, Raul started to come informously known as the Ghost of Mexico City. While his reputation sometimes drove off trouble, it also attracted problems in the form of glory, seeking gunslingers, hoping to gain fame by killing him. Although his reputation worried him, Raul kept wearing the outfit due to how happy it made his sister, and his legend in the area continued to grow, feeling increasingly optimistic about his and his sister's chance. Raul started to play with the thought of carving out a permanent spot in Mexico City, but things would soon take a turn for the worst. Getting increasingly sick and weak from radiation exposure, Raul eventually found himself too ill to even get up and help scavenged with his sister. This illness was indicative of his early stages of gulification, and as such, she was left to provide for both of them. One day, after she failed to return from the market where she had been scavenging for food, Raul went in search for her only to find her brutally murdered. She was so unrecognizable that he only determined it was her by a tiny scar on her knee, Raul tracked down the Raul as responsible at the market, and killed each and every one of them. Afterwards, he would leave the Vecuero outfit, feeling that it had brought him fame, but killed his sister. Leaving his entire life behind, including Ezreal often joked, his face, he wandered to the golf coasts and inhabited an unclaimed Petro Trinco refinery. He spent a long period of time there thinking about his life so far, he found a Petro Trinco jumpsuit and began to wear it. Taking the name Miguel from the Suits Soven name tag, he eventually arrived in the city of Tucson, Arizona, now known as Tucson. He settled there becoming a mechanic in general handyman, his gun stashed away where they could do no further damage. After 75 years of relative peace for Raul, he met Claudia, a prostitute working in a local brothel who bore a striking resemblance to Raffiela spurred by his reminder of what he had lost. He took the time to look out for her, though for obvious reasons never visiting her. This peaceful chap day in Raul's life however was bound to end due to Arizona being overrun with raiders and tribals before the rise of Caesar's legion brought relative stability to the area. Dirty Dave and his six brothers went to town looking for ammunition. Raul sold them ammunition hoping they would leave now that they had what they wanted. Instead they decided they wanted the brothel. Once in the brothel Dave and his brothers killed four girls and took Claudia for their own use. Raul chased the brothers for three days but by the time he caught up with them, Claudia was already dead, this sent Raul into a rage. He charged into their camp and killed all of them. However he was not as youthful as he once was having sustained several severe injuries, mainly bullet wounds. Raul stayed alive however in their camp until he got his strength back and walked back to Tucson and recovered mostly out of spite. Feeling defeated and out of place, Raul wanted west to the Mahave where he built himself a small shack in a quiet corner of the desert, east of New Vegas. He settled there spending his days listening to Black Mountain Radio. One day he lost a signal being transmitted and decided to wander up to Black Mountain. To investigate he offered his services to Tabitha the Nightkin who broadcasted the transmissions. He offered to fix the transmitter but to his dismay, Tabitha decided to imprison him for his efforts. She then threatened him to work for her, mostly repairing broken toses for the supermuntz as well as performing repairs to her broken Mr. Handy and friend Ronda. If freed from captivity by the courier, he would join the player out of gratitude with a dialogue option to decide whether he goes back to his old guns leaning ways or helps in different ways. Raul is somewhat indifferent to Caesar's Legion, although he admires the security and order they've brought in their domain although he could never join due to the fact that he's a ghoul. He feels the same way about the new California Republic, acknowledging their successes and failures like most pre-war governments. He has a vast amount of knowledge about Mr. House as he remembers the media coverage pre-war about the eccentric man. And that was a lot to cover but that is Raul's story now to get on with the last little tidbits about Mexico in the Fallout universe. The unique Fallout New Vegas weapon panciencia has a Mexican flag attached to it. In Fallout 76 at Wixins shovel museum, Mexico is mentioned as a location where the replica of a neolithic shovel would have actually came from if it was real. And that plaque of the first shovel reads as follows. The first shovel originated in neolithic times and was probably made using an animal shoulder blade. This is a replica of what that shovel may have looked like if it were made in modern times in Mexico. And that is all we know about Mexico in the Fallout universe and every reference to Mexico in the Fallout universe. A quick note on the lore however, it is mentioned that there are night stalkers and big corners in Baja. The only thing is that we only know that a ranger was killed while getting there and we don't know how close he was to Rattletail or how far Rattletail is into Baja. So it's not 100% and also those settlers went to another settlement and then farmed big corners but we don't know exactly where that is. So they're probably in Mexico, it specifically Baja but when it's not 100% if that makes it. So yeah, although it's quite likely not only geographically but from what we know in the lore that night stalkers and big corners are in Mexico, it's not 100% confirmed. I hope you guys all enjoyed the video, remember to like and subscribe, tell me what you liked or didn't like about the video, what video ideas I should do next, I've been Tweet Tripod and I'll see you in the next video.